<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <meta http-equiv="Content-Style-Type" content="text/css" />
  <title></title>
  <meta name="Generator" content="Cocoa HTML Writer" />
  <meta name="CocoaVersion" content="1187.37" />
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="css/stylesheet3.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="p1"><b><a id="doc145"></a>The advisory flip</b></p>
<p class="p2">In terms of mindset, don't go into these discussions looking for customers. It creates a needy vibe and forfeits the position of power. Instead, go in search of industry and customer advisors. You are just trying to find helpful, knowledgable people who are excited about your idea.</p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p2">With that mindset switch, you'll know why you're there. And instead of it being a customer-learning-but-I-really-want-to-do-sales meeting, it's a let-me-find-out-if-you-are-a-good-advisor-by-asking-lots-of-questions meeting.</p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p2">Willpower is a finite resource. The way to overcome difficult situations isn't to power through, but rather to change your circumstances to require less willpower. Changing the context of the meeting to "looking for advisors" is the equivalent of throwing out all your chocolate when you start a diet. You change the environment to naturally facilitate your goals.</p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p2">You don't need to explicitly tell them you're looking for advisors. In fact, I wouldn't unless you already quite like them and it happens to come up in conversation. It's really about orienting your state of mind to give you a helpful internal narrative and consistent front.</p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p2">Somewhat counterintuitively, the sales-advisor switch also puts you firmly in control of the meeting, since you're now evaluating <i>them</i>. Even if the topics of discussion are basically the same, you (and they) will notice the difference.</p>
</body>
</html>
