<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <meta http-equiv="Content-Style-Type" content="text/css" />
  <title></title>
  <meta name="Generator" content="Cocoa HTML Writer" />
  <meta name="CocoaVersion" content="1187.37" />
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="css/stylesheet8.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="p1"><a id="doc280"></a>"Who else should I talk to?"</p>
<p class="p2">Good question. Yes! End every conversation like this. Lining up the first few conversations can be challenging, but if you’re onto something interesting and treating people well, your leads will quickly multiply via intros.<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p2">If someone doesn’t want to make intros, that’s cool too. Just leave them be. You’ve learned that you’re either screwing up the meeting (probably by being too formal, pitchy, or clingy) or they don’t actually care about the problem you’re solving. Take anything nice they say with an extra grain of salt.</p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p1"><a id="doc279"></a>"Is there anything else I should have asked?"</p>
<p class="p2">Good question. Usually, by the end of the meeting, people understand what you’re trying to do. Since you don’t know the industry, they’ll often be sitting there quietly while you completely miss the most important point.</p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p2">Asking this question gives them a chance to politely “fix” your line of questioning. And they will!</p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p2">This question is a bit of a crutch: you’ll discard it as you get better at asking good questions and as you get to know the industry.</p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p2"><i>Rule of thumb: </i>People want to help you, but will rarely do so unless you give them an excuse to do so.</p>
</body>
</html>
