<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <meta http-equiv="Content-Style-Type" content="text/css" />
  <title></title>
  <meta name="Generator" content="Cocoa HTML Writer" />
  <meta name="CocoaVersion" content="1187.37" />
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="css/stylesheet18.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="p1"><span class="s1"></span><br /></p>
<p class="p1"><span class="s1"></span><br /></p>
<p class="p1"><span class="s1"></span><br /></p>
<p class="p1"><span class="s1"></span><br /></p>
<p class="p1"><span class="s1"></span><br /></p>
<p class="p1"><span class="s1"></span><br /></p>
<h3 style="margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px; text-align: center; text-indent: 0.0px; font-size: 327%"><b><a id="doc182"></a>Conclusion and cheatsheet</b></h3>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p4">I still ask dumb questions all the time. You will too. Don’t beat yourself up over it. In fact, just yesterday I screwed up a particularly important meeting by slipping into pitch mode (this was yesterday at the time of writing… hopefully not again at the time of reading).</p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p4">It happens. It’s okay. Review with your team, don’t beat yourself up (or your cofounders) over mistakes. Work on getting better as a team.</p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p4">I make tons of mistakes. At least now I notice and have a chance to fix them. Most bad conversations can be fixed. You’re trying to do something difficult. You’re never going to be perfect, but it always helps to be better.</p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p4">People love startups. Startups do cool stuff and make their lives better. Everyone supports the entrepreneur. When entrepreneurs screw up, people want to forgive them. They want the entrepreneur and the startup to succeed.<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p4">By asking good questions, we can fix many flawed ideas before they get us in trouble. But still, sometimes it doesn’t work out. It’s okay. Go to the people who believed in and supported you and thank them. If relevant, apologise. They’ll say something like:</p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p5">“Hey, don’t even worry about it — I know how it goes.”</p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p4">Eternity will forgive our earthly blunders. Everyone loves an entrepreneur. After all, you’re putting it on the line to try and make their lives better.</p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p4"><i>Rule of thumb:</i> It’s going to be okay.</p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p6"><b><a id="doc381"></a>Hack it</b></p>
<p class="p4">In ancient times it was prophesied that whoever undid the convoluted Gordian Knot would rule the land. Coming across the knot, Alexander drew his sword and with a single stroke, cut the knot in half. The knot was undone and he became “the Great”.</p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p4">Struggling to untie the knot was the “proper” process. Cutting through it was a hack (ba-dum tish!). Alexander jumped straight to the end result without any of the work.<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p4">When we find a new and exciting process, it’s easy to spend hours obsessively geeking out about exactly the right way to untie this big, gnarly knot.</p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p4">At a workshop about customer segmentation, a personal trainer said he was spending most of his time on the non-billable commutes between his clients. At some point it was suggested that the police might be a better customer, since he could go to the station and spend all day working with different officers. No commute, more billable hours, and a less price-sensitive customer. Sounds good in theory.</p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p4">We all started geeking out about how he was going to validate this. Who could he talk to? Did anyone have family in the police? What should his interview questions be? What was the market size? Etc etc.<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p4">He looked at us like we were all idiots and held up his phone. “Why wouldn’t I just call them?” It’s not like he didn’t know their number. We all stood around a bit dumbfounded while he went outside and called the police. Twenty minutes later, he came back in with a trial session scheduled.<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p4">Having a process is valuable, but don’t get stuck in it. Sometimes you can just pick up the phone and hack through the knot.</p>
</body>
</html>
