<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <meta http-equiv="Content-Style-Type" content="text/css" />
  <title></title>
  <meta name="Generator" content="Cocoa HTML Writer" />
  <meta name="CocoaVersion" content="1187.37" />
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="css/stylesheet3.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="p1"><b><a id="doc103"></a>Prepare your list of 3</b></p>
<p class="p2">Always pre-plan the 3 most important things you want to learn from any given type of person.<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p2">Pre-planning your big questions makes it a lot easier to ask questions which pass The Mom Test and aren’t biasing. It also makes it easier to face the questions that hurt. If we go through an unplanned conversation, we tend to focus on trivial stuff which keeps the conversation comfortable. Instead, decide what to ask with your team in a calm environment.</p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p2">Your 3 questions will be different for each type of person you’re talking to. If you have multiple types of customers or partners, have a list for each.</p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p2">Don’t stress too much about choosing the “right” important questions. They will change. Just choose the 3 questions which seem murkiest or most important <i>right now</i>. Doing so will give you firmer footing and a better sense of direction for your next 3.</p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p2">You might get answers 1-3 from customer A, answer 4 from customer B, answers 5-7 from customer C. There’s overlap and repetition, but you don’t need to repeat the full set of questions with every participant. Don’t feel obliged to repeat questions you already have reliable data on. Pick up where you left off and keep filling in the picture.</p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p2">Knowing your list allows you to take better advantage of serendipitous encounters. Instead of running into that dream customer and asking to exchange business cards so you can “grab a coffee” (exactly like everyone else), you can just pop off your most important question. And that goes a long way toward Keeping it Casual.</p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p2"><i>Rule of thumb: </i>You always need a list of your 3 big questions.</p>
</body>
</html>
