<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <meta http-equiv="Content-Style-Type" content="text/css" />
  <title></title>
  <meta name="Generator" content="Cocoa HTML Writer" />
  <meta name="CocoaVersion" content="1187.37" />
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="css/stylesheet8.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="p1"><a id="doc302"></a>"There are a couple people I can introduce you to when you're ready."</p>
<p class="p2">Nearly a good meeting, but right now it’s bad. There’s some data here, but probably not as much as you initially hope. On the bright side, at least you know he doesn’t think you’re completely nuts or he wouldn’t have even made the fluffy offer (unless he’s just name dropping). The problem is that the promise is so generic that it’s a worthless signal.<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p2">To fix it, try to convert fuzzy promises into something more concrete. The more specific it is, the more seriously you can take it. For example: who does he want to introduce you to and what does “ready” mean? And why can’t he make the intro now? This isn’t about being pushy. You don’t have manifest destiny over his rolodex. But you do need to distinguish between legitimate offers and polite gesturing. Knowing what “ready” means can also give you a better sense of what your short-term goals should be.</p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p1"><a id="doc304"></a>"What are the next steps?"</p>
<p class="p2">Good meeting. A classic good meeting conclusion. To succeed, a meeting doesn’t need to end with a check in your pocket. It just needs to advance to the next step, whatever that is.</p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p2">It's worth noting that you need to know your next steps to benefit from this. If you have to say, “Let me have a think about that and get back to you,” then you’ve ruined a perfectly good meeting.</p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p2">Of course, even clear next steps can be a lie. Everything can be a lie. But with next steps in your pocket, you've got a fighting chance.</p>
</body>
</html>
