<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <meta http-equiv="Content-Style-Type" content="text/css" />
  <title></title>
  <meta name="Generator" content="Cocoa HTML Writer" />
  <meta name="CocoaVersion" content="1187.37" />
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="css/stylesheet13.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="p1"><a id="doc374"></a>"Can I buy the prototype?"</p>
<p class="p2">Great meeting. The best meeting conclusion I've seen is the rarely-heard but always appreciated, “Can I buy the prototype?”<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p2">A product designer was once showing me a brilliant smartphone tripod he was designing. He demo’d the 3D-printed prototype unit for me and I immediately asked him how much it would cost to buy the prototype. He laughed and said he’d gone through about a dozen prototypes already because people kept buying them. That’s a good sign.</p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p1"><a id="doc306"></a>"When can you come back to talk to the rest of the team?"</p>
<p class="p2">Good meeting. Bingo! If you are selling anything to companies, you’re going to have to talk to multiple people. If they won’t introduce you, then it’s a sure bet you’re at a dead end.</p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p2">Enterprise sales is tedious, but one of the perks is that you can get really accurate signals like this one quite early in the process. Building consumer products is a lot murkier since the customer conversation process doesn’t mimic the purchase process.</p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p4"><b><a id="doc154"></a>How to fix a bad meeting</b></p>
<p class="p2">The worst meetings are the wishy-washy ones that you leave with neither rejection nor advancement. You are in no-man’s-land and you won’t learn anything until you fix the meeting by forcing a next step (or rejection).</p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p2">A lost meeting can often be saved by just pushing for a commitment at the end while you're being brushed off with a compliment.<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p2">But don't be annoying. You aren't trying to strong-arm folks into handing over their wallet. You <i>are</i> trying to cut through some of the polite rejections and find out if they're actually going to become a partner/investor/customer.</p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p2">If they aren't excited, then good news: you got the information you came for. Assimilate it, decide if it matters enough to change your strategy, and then keep on keeping on. The goal is just to put them to a decision so you can learn whether you've found a must-have product and a real customer.</p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p2"><i>Rule of thumb: </i>It’s not a real lead until you’ve given them a concrete chance to reject you.</p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p4"><b><a id="doc265"></a>Don't pitch blind</b></p>
<p class="p2">Even once you've moved on to more product-focused sales meetings, you still want to start with some open-ended learning to get your bearings. You may know what the market cares about, but figuring out what’s unique about this particular person feels. It will make the rest of the conversation much smoother, increases your chances of closing the deal, and also gives you ongoing learning even after you've got a product.<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p2">Startup sales meetings too often go like this:<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p5"><span class="s1">You: </span>"We do X. Want to buy it?"<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p5"><span class="s1">Them: </span>"No thanks."</p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p2">Those rejections aren't helpful. Hard pitching gives binary feedback: you either nailed it or you didn't. That's okay when you're making fine adjustments (tweak this feature) but bad for bigger questions (does anybody care at all about what I'm doing).</p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p2">Ask learning questions which pass The Mom Test. Then confirm by selling it. This happens over both the life of your company and during a single meeting.</p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p4"><b><a id="doc222"></a>Crazy customers and your first sale</b></p>
<p class="p2">It’s pretty weird that anybody buys anything from young startups. In all likelihood, before the year is up, you’re going to either go out of business, abandon the product, or sell the company. And even if you stay the course, there’s no guarantee you can actually do what you say you can do.</p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p2">First customers are crazy. Crazy in a good way. They really, really want what you’re making. They want it so badly that they’re willing to be the crazy person who tries it first.<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p2">Keep an eye out for the people who get emotional about what you’re doing. There is a significant difference between: “Yeah, that’s a problem” and “THAT IS THE WORST PART OF MY LIFE AND I WILL PAY YOU RIGHT NOW TO FIX IT.”<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p2">Steve Blank calls them earlyvangelists (early evangelists). In the enterprise software world, they are the people who:</p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<ul class="ul1">
  <li class="li7">Have the problem</li>
  <li class="li7">Know they have the problem</li>
  <li class="li7">Have the budget to solve the problem</li>
  <li class="li7">Have already cobbled together their own makeshift solution</li>
</ul>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p2">They’re the company who will commit way before it makes rational sense to do so. It’s the guy who will give you cash right now from his discretionary budget to run a trial. Or who will fight for you against his boss and lawyers when they’re saying the tech is unproven.</p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p2">In the consumer space, it’s the fan who wants your product to succeed so badly that they’ll front you the money as a pre-order when all you’ve got is a duct-tape prototype. They're the one who will tell all their friends to chip in as well. They’re the person reading your blog and searching for workarounds.</p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p2">We’ve got 2 takeaways.</p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p2">Firstly, when someone isn’t that emotional about what you’re doing, it’s pretty unlikely that they’re going to end up being one of the people who is crazy enough to be your first customer. Keep them on the list, but don’t count on them to write the first check.</p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p2">Secondly, whenever you see the deep emotion, do your utmost to keep that person close. They are the rare, precious fan who will get you through the hard times and turn into your first sale.</p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p2">In summary, after you've learned the facts of your industry and customers and designed the solution, you start pushing for advancement and commitments to separate dead leads from real customers.</p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p2"><i>Rule of thumb: </i>In early stage sales, the real goal is learning. Revenue is just a side-effect.</p>
</body>
</html>
