<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <meta http-equiv="Content-Style-Type" content="text/css" />
  <title></title>
  <meta name="Generator" content="Cocoa HTML Writer" />
  <meta name="CocoaVersion" content="1187.37" />
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="css/stylesheet10.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="p1"><span class="s1"></span><br /></p>
<p class="p1"><span class="s1"></span><br /></p>
<p class="p1"><span class="s1"></span><br /></p>
<p class="p1"><span class="s1"></span><br /></p>
<p class="p1"><span class="s1"></span><br /></p>
<p class="p1"><span class="s1"></span><br /></p>
<h2 style="margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px; text-align: center; text-indent: 0.0px; font-size: 100%"><a id="doc74"></a>CHAPTER THREE</h2>
<h3 style="margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px; text-align: center; text-indent: 0.0px; font-size: 327%"><b>Asking important questions</b></h3>
<p class="p4"><b></b><br /></p>
<p class="p5">Once we know about The Mom Test and start trying to ask non-biasing questions, sometimes we over-compensate and ask completely trivial ones. Asking someone how old they are isn’t biasing, but it also doesn’t move your business forward. You have to apply The Mom Test to the questions which matter. Otherwise you’re just spinning your wheels.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p5">In addition to ensuring that you aren’t asking trivialities, you also need to look for the world-rocking scary questions you’re shrinking from. The best way to find them is to run thought experiments. Imagine that the company has failed and ask why that happened. Then imagine it as a huge success and ask what had to be true to get there. Find ways to learn about those critical pieces.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p5">You can tell it’s an important question when the answer to it could completely change (or disprove) your business. If you get an unexpected answer to a question and it doesn’t affect what you’re doing, it wasn’t a terribly important question.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p5">Every time you talk to someone, you should be asking a question which has the potential to completely destroy your currently imagined business.<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p5">One of my companies had some legal ambiguities around content ownership. It was okay in theory, but lacked strong precedents. I was always a bit nervous we would get “found out.” Their execs were excited, their creatives were thrilled. We had even brought the stubborn tech team around to our side. But in all my early customer conversations, I never asked to talk to their lawyers. For whatever reason, that was an important question which I shrunk from, and not asking it cost us at least half a million bucks.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p5">There’s no easy solution to making yourself face and ask these questions. I once heard the general life advice that, for unpleasant tasks, you should imagine what you would have someone else do if you were delegating it. Then do that.<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p5">And remember, you’re allowed to ask about money. You're a startup. It's okay.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p5"><i>Rule of thumb: </i>You should be terrified of at least one of the questions you’re asking in every conversation.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7"><b><a id="doc247"></a>Love bad news</b></p>
<p class="p5">One of the reasons we avoid important question is because asking them is scary. It can bring us the upsetting realisation that our favourite idea is fundamentally flawed. Or that the major client is never going to buy. Although it seems unfortunate, this we need to learn to love bad news. It’s solid learning and is getting us closer to the truth.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p5">If you’ve only got one shot, then bad news is bad news. If your bungee jump doesn’t work, that’s bad. If you’ve sunk your retirement savings into opening a cafe and it doesn’t work, that’s bad. If you hustle together $50k to start your business and spend all $50k on your first idea only to see it fail, that’s bad.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p5">On the other hand, if you have $50k and spend $5k to learn you’re running down a dead end, that’s awesome. You can use the rest to find a viable path to your goal.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p5">Similarly, if you have an exciting idea for a new product and go talk to a couple customers who don’t actually care about it, then that’s a great result. You just saved yourself however much time and money it would have cost to try building and selling it.<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p5">We go through the futile process of asking for opinions and fish for compliments because we crave approval. We want to believe that the support and sign-off of someone we respect means our venture will succeed. But really, that person’s opinion doesn’t matter. They have no idea if the business is going to work. Only the market knows.<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p5">You’re searching for the truth, not trying to be right. And you want to do it as quickly and cheaply as possible. Learning that your beliefs are wrong is frustrating, but it’s progress. It’s bringing you ever closer to the truth of a real problem and a good market.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p5">The worst thing you can do is ignore the bad news while searching for some tiny grain of validation to celebrate. You want the truth, not a gold star.<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p5">Some of the most informative (and thus best) responses you can get are along the lines of, “Umm, I’m not so sure about that” and "That's pretty neat." Both are lukewarm responses which tell you they don’t care.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p5">In this context, “best” means learning, not selling. If you’re a sales guy going door to door selling gadgets and someone doesn’t care, then that is a bad result: you’re not getting paid. But if you’re trying to decide whether to invest your time and money in developing, building and promoting that gadget, then lukewarm is a terrific response. It gives you a crystal clear signal that this person does not care. It’s perfectly reliable information you can take to the bank.<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p5">The classic error in response to a lukewarm signal is to “up your game” and pitch them until they say something nice. Unless they’re holding a check, the only thing to gain from “convincing” them are false positives. You’re not here to collect compliments; you’re trying to learn the truth. Their lukewarm response already gave you that.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p5">If they’re still engaged in the conversation, it’s worth asking a couple follow-up questions to understand the nature of their apathy. Is the “problem” not actually that big of a deal? Are they fundamentally different from your ideal customers? Do they not care about the specific implementation? Are they worn out and skeptical from hearing too many pitches, like cafe owners in the aftermath of Groupon? Are they just plain tired today?</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p5">After that, say a big thanks and leave them to their day. They’ve probably helped you more than the guy who said he loved it.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p5"><i>Rule of thumb:</i> There’s more reliable information in a “meh” than a “Wow!” You can’t build a business on a lukewarm response.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7"><b><a id="doc291"></a>Look before you zoom</b></p>
<p class="p5">Another way we miss the important questions is by instead spending our time on ultimately unimportant details. This can happen when we get stuck in the details before understanding the big picture.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p5">Most people have lots of problems which they don’t actually care enough about to fix, but which they’ll happily tell you the details of if you ask them. Before you have solid evidence that you’re fixing a meaningful problem for your customer segment, you can really mess yourself up by zooming in too quickly.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p8"><b>A (really, really) bad conversation:</b></p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p9"><span class="s2">You: </span>“Hello. Thanks for taking the time. We’re building phone and tablet apps to help people stay in shape and just wanted to understand how you stay fit.” <i>This isn’t a terrible opening, but I’d generally avoid mentioning the idea immediately since it gives them a good idea of which answers you’re hoping to hear.</i></p>
<p class="p10"><br /></p>
<p class="p9"><span class="s2">Them: </span>“Okay.” <i>I never exercise, so this should be quick.</i></p>
<p class="p10"><br /></p>
<p class="p9"><span class="s2">You: </span>“How often do you go to the gym?” <i>This sort of demographic data doesn’t give you any new insight, but can still be useful at the start of a conversation to figure out what sort of person you’re talking to so you can ask relevant follow-ups.</i></p>
<p class="p10"><br /></p>
<p class="p9"><span class="s2">Them: </span>“Not really ever.” <i>Well, looks like we’re done here then!</i></p>
<p class="p10"><br /></p>
<p class="p9"><span class="s2">You: </span>“What would you say your biggest problem with going to the gym is?” <i>This is where the conversation goes horribly wrong. Instead of figuring out whether staying fit is actually a real problem, we’re prematurely zooming in on it. Any response we get is going to be dangerously misleading.</i></p>
<p class="p10"><br /></p>
<p class="p9"><span class="s2">Them: </span>“I guess the time it takes to get there. I’m always kind of busy, you know?” <i>Wait, who says I have a problem with going to the gym? I thought I just told you I don’t care about the gym! But if I had to choose one, I guess I’d go with convenience. Not that I’ve done a pushup in 5 years. Pushups are pretty convenient.</i></p>
<p class="p10"><br /></p>
<p class="p9"><span class="s2">You: </span>“Perfect. That’s great. And could you rank these 4 in terms of which is most important to you in a fitness program: convenience, personalisation, novelty, or cost?” <i>Note that we’re still assuming we’re talking to a person who actually cares about getting in shape. Questions like this don’t actually tell you if the person cares about any of it at all.</i></p>
<p class="p10"><br /></p>
<p class="p9"><span class="s2">Them: </span>“Probably convenience, then cost, then personalisation, then novelty.” <i>Since you asked, I’ll answer. Hypothetically speaking, of course.</i></p>
<p class="p10"><br /></p>
<p class="p9"><span class="s2">You: </span>“Okay. Awesome. Thanks so much. We’re working on an app to help you exercise in the convenience of your own home. I think it’s going to be a great fit for what you care about.” <i>Totally missing the point and mis-interpreting the conversation as validation. Now fishing for compliments.</i></p>
<p class="p10"><br /></p>
<p class="p9"><span class="s2">Them: </span>“Cool. I’d love to try it when it launches.” <i>Half-hearted compliment plus non-committal stalling tactic.</i></p>
<p class="p10"><br /></p>
<p class="p9"><span class="s2">You: </span>“Great — I’ll send over one of our beta keys so you can check it out.” <i>We got a user!</i></p>
<p class="p10"><br /></p>
<p class="p9"><span class="s2">Them: </span>“Thanks.” <i>I am literally never going to type that in.</i></p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p5">The reason this conversation is so very bad is because, if you aren’t paying attention, it seems like it went well. If you focus the conversation too quickly on one problem area, you can think you’ve validated a “top” problem when you haven’t. You just led them there.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p5">If you ask me what my biggest problem with staying fit is, I’ll probably tell you it’s the time cost of going to the gym. But then, if you build me a workout-at-home app, I’m going to ignore it. Even though commute time is the <i>biggest</i> problem with getting in shape, the whole area of fitness just isn’t something I care about enough to act on. My #1 fitness problem is still an unimportant one.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p5">Let’s start the conversation again and fix it when it starts to go off track:</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p8"><b>A good conversation:</b></p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p9"><span class="s2">You: </span>“How often do you go to the gym?”<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p10"><br /></p>
<p class="p9"><span class="s2">Them: </span>“Um. Not really ever.” <i>Looks like we’re done here.</i></p>
<p class="p10"><i></i><br /></p>
<p class="p9"><span class="s2">You: </span>“Why not?” <i>Instead of taking for granted that staying fit is one of their top priorities, let’s dig into the motivations.</i></p>
<p class="p10"><br /></p>
<p class="p9"><span class="s2">Them: </span>“I don’t know, it’s just not something I’m that worried about, you know?” <i>Not trying to fix this, so unlikely to buy or use an app.</i></p>
<p class="p10"><br /></p>
<p class="p9"><span class="s2">You: </span>“When’s the last time you did try? Have you ever joined a gym or taken up jogging or anything?” <i>Let’s anchor the generic just to make sure…</i></p>
<p class="p10"><br /></p>
<p class="p9"><span class="s2">Them: </span>“Oh yeah, I used to be into sports in high school. It just hasn’t been a big deal since I settled down. Running around after the kids gives me all the cardio I need!”</p>
<p class="p10"><br /></p>
<p class="p9"><span class="s2">You: </span>“Haha, gotcha. Thanks for the time!” <i>This was a pleasant conversation and we learned what we came for, so we can abandon ship and leave him to his day.</i></p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p5">The premature zoom is a real problem because it leads to data which seems like validation, but is actually worthless. In other words, it’s a big source of false positives.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p5">Let’s re-run the same conversation, but instead of immediately zooming in on exercise, we’ll start more generic, since we aren’t sure that fitness is a must-solve problem:</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p8"><b>A good conversation:</b></p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p9"><span class="s2">You: </span>“What are your big goals and focuses right now?” <i>Products which solve problems on this list are infinitely more likely to get bought. We might alternately ask for major annoyances, costs, or joys.</i></p>
<p class="p10"><br /></p>
<p class="p9"><span class="s2">Them: </span>“The big one is finalising that promotion at work. And we just bought our first house, so I’ve got to get that all fixed up and ready to go. Exciting times. And I want to find a bit more time for the missus, you know? Things have been pretty busy lately.” <i>Work, house, and marriage. Not looking good for us!</i></p>
<p class="p10"><br /></p>
<p class="p9"><span class="s2">You: </span>“You’re buying a new house and expect to be <i>less</i> busy?”</p>
<p class="p10"><br /></p>
<p class="p9"><span class="s2">Them: </span>“Can’t blame a guy for hoping.”</p>
<p class="p10"><br /></p>
<p class="p9"><span class="s2">You: </span>“Is getting healthier on that list?” <i>We probably already know the answer, but it doesn’t hurt to ask leading questions when you’re about to abort the conversation anyway. If they come back with a positive, just be a little extra careful in making sure they aren’t lying.</i></p>
<p class="p10"><br /></p>
<p class="p9"><span class="s2">Them: </span>“I’m actually feeling pretty good at the moment.” <i>Not a customer.</i></p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p5">However, we don’t always need to start the conversation from the square one of <i>do-they-care-at-all</i>. Sometimes we know the problem exists as a top priority and we can safely zoom in immediately.<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p5">For example, let’s say we help drive qualified leads to small business websites. We know that marketing is always a top 3 problem for small businesses, so we can focus on it and start the conversation by zooming in with a question like:</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p9"><span class="s2">You: </span>What are your big problems with marketing?<b> </b><i>We can immediately zoom in on the problem if we are 100% certain it’s a must-solve problem which people are ready to pay for.</i></p>
<p class="p6"><i></i><br /></p>
<p class="p5">Versus:</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p9"><span class="s2">You: </span>What are your big problems right now? <i>If we aren’t sure it’s a must-solve problem, we start more generic to see if they care at all about the problem category, in which case they’ll mention it.</i></p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p5">Now imagine you’ve built the aforementioned marketing tool for small businesses and realise it could also be used to help bloggers get more attention. You’re wondering if you have another strong customer segment. However, since blogs have a harder time monetising traffic than small businesses, we can’t necessarily assume that they’re also going to happily pay for traffic.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p5">For example, I have a blog which I quite like (but which I don’t take seriously as a business). If you’re talking to me and you ask, “Hey Rob, what are your top problems with <i>marketing</i> your blog?”<i> </i>Then you’ve just prematurely zoomed on a non-problem.<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p5">I’m going to tell you some sort of answer which sounds legit but is actually misleading. I might say that my keywords are all kind of generic, so it’s hard to attract the right people. Or that I walk a fine line between writing beginner and advanced articles, so it’s tough to attract the right people. Whatever. Problems exist with my blog marketing, but the whole space just isn’t something I’m too fussed about. I write because it’s fun, not because it’s how I pay my rent.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p5">To have a useful conversation, you need to zoom back out to ask about my blog in general, rather than marketing my blog.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p5"><b>A good conversation:</b></p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p9"><span class="s2">You: </span>“Hey Rob, what are the top problems with your blog?”</p>
<p class="p11"><br /></p>
<p class="p9"><span class="s2">Me: </span>“I’m pissed that Google Reader is disappearing — I feel that I’m going to lose like half my followers. And this book is consuming all of my interest in writing, so I haven’t really posted in months. And Wordpress seems so slow these days.” <i>Of the topics here, one of them (Google Reader and audience size) is related to marketing, so you can anchor on that and figure out whether I’m a customer or just a complainer.</i></p>
<p class="p11"><br /></p>
<p class="p9"><span class="s2">You: </span>“That Google Reader thing is a mess. What are you doing about it?” <i>Now that you’ve let me raise the topic, you know it’s on my mind and can more safely zoom in to talk about that specifically. As before, try to figure out what I’m already spending time and money on.</i></p>
<p class="p11"><br /></p>
<p class="p9"><span class="s2">Me: </span>“Nothing, really. I don’t know what to do. But it sucks.” <i>I’m not appearing terribly motivated, but the fact that I don’t know what to do could give you hope.</i></p>
<p class="p11"><br /></p>
<p class="p9"><span class="s2">You: </span>“Have you looked into what your options are?” <i>Continue anchoring and digging.</i></p>
<p class="p11"><br /></p>
<p class="p9"><span class="s2">Me: </span>“No, I just caught the drama on Hacker News.” <i>I knew the reader-pocalypse was coming and didn’t even search around to properly understand the implications and my options. This just isn’t a big deal for me, despite how “annoyed” I claim to be.</i></p>
<p class="p11"><i></i><br /></p>
<p class="p9"><span class="s2">You: </span>“Are you going to make a serious effort to build your audience back up?” <i>You are digging into the audience size signal, since it’s relevant to your space. It’s a fluff-inviting question (hypothetical future-tense), so you should be skeptical of the answer, but it’s hard to see a better way to get at the information you want from here. Not every question can be perfect, sadly.</i></p>
<p class="p11"><i></i><br /></p>
<p class="p9"><span class="s2">Me: </span>“Probably just keep on writing when I have something to say. It’s more of a hobby than a business, really.”</p>
<p class="p6"><i></i><br /></p>
<p class="p5">At this point, you might be suspicious about how much I actually care about my blog. When it’s not clear whether a problem is a must-solve-right-now (e.g. you’re selling a painkiller) or a nice-to-have (you’re selling a vitamin), you can get some clarity by asking cost/value questions like the following.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p8"><b>“Does-this-problem-matter” questions:</b></p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<ul class="ul1">
  <li class="li12">“How seriously do you take your blog?”<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></li>
  <li class="li12">“Do you make money from it?”</li>
  <li class="li12">“Have you tried making more money from it?”</li>
  <li class="li12">“How much time do you spend on it each week?”</li>
  <li class="li12">“Do you have any major aspirations for your blog?”</li>
  <li class="li12">“Which tools and services do you use for it?”</li>
  <li class="li12">“What are you already doing to improve this?”</li>
  <li class="li12">“What are the 3 big things you’re trying to fix or improve right now?”</li>
</ul>
<p class="p6"><i></i><br /></p>
<p class="p5">Some of these questions are generic, but give us signals that we can anchor on and dig around. The bulk of them are about finding out whether the person we’re talking to is taking this space seriously. Are they spending money or making money? Is it in their top 3? Are they actively looking for solutions?</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p5">When you fall into a premature zoom, you can waste a ton of time figuring out the minutia of a trivial problem. Even if you learn everything there is to know about that particular problem, you still haven’t got a business.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p5"><i>Rule of thumb: </i>Start broad and don't zoom in until you’ve found a strong signal, both with your whole business and with every conversation.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7"><b><a id="doc373"></a>Look at the elephant</b></p>
<p class="p5">Lastly, sometimes we comfort ourselves by asking questions which don’t actually de-risk the business or resolve those critical, big, scary, lurking questions. We ignore the elephant in the room.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p5">Let’s say we suspect that teachers from the poorest schools are completely overloaded, and that our tools would save them time so they could better educate their students. We go talk to them and confirm that yes, they are completely overloaded. We then spend weeks with them, figuring out exactly what their dream tool would do. Unfortunately, we've missed the elephant, which is that the poorest schools may not have the budgets available to pay us what we need. We're liable to spend a huge amount of time exploring a real and urgent problem, only to hop into the deadpool due to our customer's budgeting issues.<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p5">Successful startups tend to depend on multiple failure points. In this case it is both the needs of the teachers and the ability of the schools to pay us. If any of these conditions doesn't exist, we have to significantly overhaul our idea. It's tempting to obsess over the most interesting of several failure points and ignore the others. It's a great way to miss important questions.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p5">Beyond the risks of our customers and market, we also have challenges with our own product. Overlooking the product risks is just as deadly as overlooking the goals and constraints of our customers. Take the following conversation with a professional public speaker. Is it full of good data or bad data?</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p8"><b>An ambiguous conversation:</b></p>
<p class="p6"><b></b><br /></p>
<p class="p9"><span class="s2">Them: </span>“…I get paid 2 or 3 grand per talk. Sometimes more if it’s corporate work.” <i>Some good pricing and value signals.</i></p>
<p class="p10"><br /></p>
<p class="p9"><span class="s2">You: </span>“Where do you get your gigs? Do you have an agent?” <i>Trying to understand the alternatives.</i></p>
<p class="p10"><br /></p>
<p class="p9"><span class="s2">Them: </span>“Yeah. He kind of sucks though. Most of my work comes through people who just know me from my blog or have seen my other talks.” <i>Hardly a must-solve problem since he has a reliable workaround, but at least it’s high value.<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></i></p>
<p class="p10"><br /></p>
<p class="p9"><span class="s2">You: </span>“What’s wrong with the agent? And why do you still work with him?” <i>Dig.</i></p>
<p class="p10"><br /></p>
<p class="p9"><span class="s2">Them: </span>“I’m one of the lowest-paid people they work with, so I get ignored a lot. But sometimes he brings in deals, so whatever. It’s free money.” <i>Good information on his motivations and goals.</i></p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p5">At this point, let’s say I’m confident that getting gigs is important to him. I also know what it’s worth and how he’s currently accomplishing it. So I zoom in to introduce the problem I’m solving and the way I want to approach it.</p>
<p class="p6"><i></i><br /></p>
<p class="p9"><span class="s2">You: </span>“I’m building a marketplace to cut out the agents and connect event organisers directly with speakers. It should help you get more gigs and keep the agent fees. How would that fit into your speaking life?”</p>
<p class="p10"><br /></p>
<p class="p9"><span class="s2">Them: </span>“Man, that’s awesome. If you could get me more more gigs — or better paid ones — I’d happily drop my agent and pay you 20% of the boost. I know a bunch of other people who would love to as well.” <i>This is the important bit — is it good?</i></p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p5">So what’s the result? Beyond being excited, we got some concrete data about how valuable this could be to him. Plus, it involved a commitment to be one of our early users. It sure <i>seems</i> good.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p5">But what did he actually tell us? He said that <i>if</i> we can get him more gigs, <i>then</i> he’ll pay a cut. Well, obviously. Who doesn’t want free money? His needs are clear: he wants to make more money by speaking. If we can send him work, he’ll share some of it with us. This was never really in doubt.<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p5">The key phrase of “if you could get me more gigs” is basically shifting the burden from the customer to your product. Even though you’ve found a pain, your success is dependent on a bunch of other factors, such as your ability to grow a healthy supply of paying gigs which are a good fit for him. Will you be able to do that? It remains to be seen.<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p5">This situation is easier to spot in the online advertising industry. Imagine running customer conversations with an advertiser to try to understand their pains so you can convince them to advertise on your site. They’d sort of look at you blankly and say, “Listen, if you can get enough page views, we’ll pay you for them.” In fact, it’s such a well established would-pay-to-solve-problem that you don’t even need to talk to them to set it up. You just plug in an ad network and you’re done.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p5">Similarly with affiliate commissions. If you sell a company’s products, you get a cut. That’s just how it works. You don’t need to explore or validate or understand their problems. The risk resides in your ability to get lots of traffic and sell lots of products. If you can, they’ll pay you.<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p5">In all of these examples, the risk is in your product, not in the market or the customer. The customer will pay if your product gets big enough.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<ul class="ul1">
  <li class="li12">Product risk — Can I build it? Can I grow it? Will they keep using it?</li>
  <li class="li12">Market risk — Do they want it? Will they pay? Are there enough of them?</li>
</ul>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p5">You don’t want to overlook one or the other. I met a founder who had wasted 3 months on worthless customer conversations. He wanted to start a company building gadgets to track the fertility of farm animals, ultimately boosting birthrates and thus revenue. When he talked to farmers, he asked questions like, “Would you switch trackers if something cheaper and more effective was available?” That’s the same as asking someone whether they would like more money. The answer is always “Yes.” The farmers responded along the lines of, “If you can build what you say you can build, I’ll equip my whole herd.” The problem is, he couldn’t build it. The risk was in the product.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p5">I’ve also seen this strike several of the recent companies who want to use mobile/realtime deals to drive foot traffic to bars and clubs. They run customer conversations with bar owners who confirm that: yes, they would like more customers on the slow nights; and yes, they would pay you if you could send customers on demand. The founders take this as strong validation (“They have the problem and committed to pay!”) without recognising that the vast majority of the risk is in the product, not the market. Bars will pay, but only if you can amass a huge audience of consumers. Then the founders talk to consumers and ask if they would use an app which always pointed them to booming parties with cheap booze. Again, obviously yes. But that doesn’t tell us whether we can actually get to that critical mass of users.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p5">Video games are pure product risk. What sort of question could you ask to validate your game idea? “Do you like having fun?” “Would you like to have <i>even more</i> fun?” Practically 100% of the risk is in the product and almost none is in the customer. You know people buy games. If yours is good and you can find a way to make them notice it, they’ll buy it. You don’t need to rediscover people’s desire to play video games.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p5">This isn’t to say that you shouldn’t talk to anyone if you’re building something with product risk. In the case of the farm fertility monitor, it’s good to know that the farmer isn’t opposed to switching tech once he’s already got something installed, for example. For the nightclubs, it’s good to know that they’re at least theoretically willing to pay for promotion. It would be tragic to succeed at the hard work of creating the technology or community only to learn nobody will pay for it.<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p5">What all this <i>does</i> mean is that if you’ve got heavy product risk (as opposed to pure market risk), then you’re not going to be able to prove as much of your business through conversations alone. The conversations give you a starting point, but you’ll have to start building product earlier and with less certainty than if you had pure market risk.</p>
</body>
</html>
