<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <meta http-equiv="Content-Style-Type" content="text/css" />
  <title></title>
  <meta name="Generator" content="Cocoa HTML Writer" />
  <meta name="CocoaVersion" content="1187.37" />
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="css/stylesheet16.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="p1"><span class="s1"></span><br /></p>
<p class="p1"><span class="s1"></span><br /></p>
<p class="p1"><span class="s1"></span><br /></p>
<p class="p1"><span class="s1"></span><br /></p>
<p class="p1"><span class="s1"></span><br /></p>
<p class="p1"><span class="s1"></span><br /></p>
<h2 style="margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px; text-align: center; text-indent: 0.0px; font-size: 100%"><a id="doc178"></a>CHAPTER EIGHT</h2>
<h3 style="margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px; text-align: center; text-indent: 0.0px; font-size: 327%"><b>Running the process</b></h3>
<p class="p4"><b></b><br /></p>
<p class="p5">Even if you do everything else right, you can get bad results if you don’t have the right process wrapped around your conversations. If you just show up to meetings and hope for the best, you aren't making a good use of anyone's time. You need to do a little bit of work before and after to extract full value.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p5">A common anti-pattern is for the business guy to go to all the meetings and subsequently tell the rest of the team what they should do. Bad idea. Telling the rest of the team “What I learned” is functionally equivalent to telling them “What you’ll do.” Therefore, owning the customer conversations creates a de-facto dictator with “The customer said so” as the ultimate trump card.<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p5">But as we’ve seen, it’s easy to misinterpret what the customer said.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p5">When all the customer learning is stuck in someone’s head instead of being disseminated to the rest of the team, you’ve got a learning bottleneck. Avoid creating (or being) the bottleneck. To do that, the customer and learning has to be shared with the entire founding team, promptly and faithfully. That relies on good notes plus a bit of pre- and post-meeting work.<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p5">The most extreme way to bottleneck is to go to the meetings alone and take crappy notes which you don’t review with your team. At that point, your head has become the ultimate repository of customer truth and everyone just has to do what you say.<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p5">In my case, I bottlenecked so hard that our CTO quit while saying, “We’re never going to succeed if you keep changing what we’re doing.” In my defence, the stuff I’d learned was true (at least, I think it was). But it didn’t matter anyway since I hadn’t properly communicated it to the rest of the team.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7"><b>Symptoms of a learning bottleneck:<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></b></p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<ul class="ul1">
  <li class="li8">“You just worry about the product. I’ll learn what we need to know.”</li>
  <li class="li8">“Because the customers told me so!”</li>
  <li class="li8">“I don’t have time to talk to people — I need to be coding!”</li>
</ul>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p5">Avoiding bottlenecks has three parts: prepping, reviewing, and taking good notes.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p9"><b><a id="doc378"></a>Prepping</b></p>
<p class="p5">Your most important preparation work is to ensure you know your current list of 3 big questions. Figure them out with your team and make a point to face the scary questions.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p5">If you’ve already learned the facts of your customer and industry, then you should also know what commitment and next steps you are going to push for at the end of the meeting.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p5">It’s easier to guide the conversation and stay on track if you have an existing set of beliefs that you’re updating. Spend up to an hour writing down your best guesses about what the person you’re about to talk to cares about and wants. You’ll probably be wrong, but it’s easier to keep the discussion on track and hit important points if you’ve created a skeleton. If you have an appropriately focused segment, then you’ll only rarely need to do this.<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p5">While prepping, if you come across a question which could be answered with desk research, take a moment to do it. You want to move past the obvious stuff and spend your conversations finding answers the internet can’t give you.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p5">Similarly, if you’re about to meet with a business, do your basic due diligence on LinkedIn and the company website. It takes 5 minutes and will save you from borking the conversation and looking like an idiot.<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p5">Sit down with your whole founding team when you prep. You want both business and product to be represented. If you leave part of the company out of the prep, then you end up missing their concerns in the customer conversations.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p5">Some founders react with hostility to the whole idea. They’ll say something along the lines of, “We need to be building the gosh derned product, not fuffing around talking to people.” On the surface, it appears to be a refusal to face the reality that there might be something wrong with the product’s foundations. But having seen it in several teams now, I think it’s actually the desire for speed, where speed is measured by building features instead of by de-risking and validating the business.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p5">Beyond asking a grumpy cofounder to “humour me”, there are 2 questions to help tease out hidden product risks. The first is asking, “If this company fails, what is most likely to have killed it?” If we had asked that about my very first product (a user-generated cartoon community), we would have answered that either nobody wants to create cartoons or that their cartoons will be so bad that nobody wants to watch them. This gives us a good starting point to begin exploring with a combination of technical and conversational tools.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7"><b>Prep questions to unearth hidden risks:</b></p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<ul class="ul1">
  <li class="li8">If this company were to fail, why would it have happened?</li>
  <li class="li8">What would have to be true for this to be a huge success?</li>
</ul>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p5">The second question is a flipped version of the first, from Lafley/Martin’s strategy book. “What would have to be true for this to be a huge success?” In this case, I might have answered that we need lots of hilarious cartoons plus scaling revenue from brand advertisers.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p5">These aren’t long, involved strategy discussions. Your gut reaction is enough. You don’t need to be too rigorous. All you’re really trying to figure out is:</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<ul class="ul1">
  <li class="li8">“What do we want to learn from these guys?”</li>
</ul>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p5">In fact, if you’re tight for time, asking this question is the only prep you really need.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p5"><i>Rule of thumb: </i>If you don’t know what you’re trying to learn, you shouldn’t bother having the conversation.</p>
</body>
</html>
