<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <meta http-equiv="Content-Style-Type" content="text/css" />
  <title></title>
  <meta name="Generator" content="Cocoa HTML Writer" />
  <meta name="CocoaVersion" content="1187.37" />
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="css/stylesheet11.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="p1"><span class="s1"></span><br /></p>
<p class="p1"><span class="s1"></span><br /></p>
<p class="p1"><span class="s1"></span><br /></p>
<p class="p1"><span class="s1"></span><br /></p>
<p class="p1"><span class="s1"></span><br /></p>
<p class="p1"><span class="s1"></span><br /></p>
<h2 style="margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px; text-align: center; text-indent: 0.0px; font-size: 100%"><a id="doc194"></a>CHAPTER FOUR</h2>
<h3 style="margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px; text-align: center; text-indent: 0.0px; font-size: 327%"><b>Keeping it casual</b></h3>
<p class="p4"><b></b><br /></p>
<p class="p5">We know that zooming prematurely and introducing your idea too early creates biases and can get you stuck on a local maximum. In his original book on Customer Development, <i>4 Steps to the E.piphany</i>, Steve Blank solves this by recommending 3 separate meetings: the first about the customer and their problem; the second about your solution; and the third to sell a product. By splitting the meetings, you avoid the premature zoom and biasing them with your ideas.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p5">In practice, however, I’ve found it both difficult and inefficient to set them up. The time cost of a 1-hour meeting is more like 4 hours once you factor in the calendar dance, commuting, and reviewing. It’s also a big time commitment to ask from the customer before you’re in a position to show them anything in return.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p5">In the early days, asking for the first conversation was simply impossible for me. I wasn’t credible enough, so nobody wanted to take a meeting just to talk to me about their day. Steve recommends starting with friendly first contacts. Definitely do that if you have them. Thanks to The Mom Test, the fact that they’re friends won’t bias your data, so long as you ask good questions. In my case though, I was entering a new industry with high walls (brand advertising) and no friendly first contacts.<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p5">As my credibility built after a couple years in the industry, I found I was now able to get meetings without any real “reason”. The 3-meeting structure was finally viable! But once I started doing it, it felt like a bad use of my time. The most precious resource a startup has is its founders’ time and attention. You have to put yourself where you matter most, and I wasn’t finding early customer meetings to be that place. I wished I could get the learning without all the overhead.<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p5">If the solution isn’t a 3-meeting series, then what is it? You may have noticed a trend throughout the conversation examples we’ve seen so far: keeping it casual.<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p5">Let’s say I’m trying to build tools to help public speakers get more speaking gigs and I bump into one at a conference. I’m not going to try to set up a meeting. Instead, I’m just going to immediately transition into my most important question: “Hey, I’m curious—how did you end up getting this gig?” As a side bonus, we’re also now having an interesting conversation and I’m far more likely to be remembered and get a meeting later.<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p5">When you strip all the formality from the process, you end up with no meetings, no interview questions, and a much easier time. The conversations become so fast and lightweight that you can go to a industry meet-up and leave with a dozen customer conversations under your belt, each of which provided as much value as a formal meeting.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p5">The structure of separate problem/solution/sales conversations is critical for avoiding bias, but it’s important to realise that the first one doesn’t actually need to be a meeting.<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p6"><i></i><br /></p>
<p class="p5"><i>Rule of thumb: </i>Learning about a customer and their problems works better as a quick and casual chat than a long, formal meeting.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7"><b><a id="doc167"></a>The meeting anti-pattern</b></p>
<p class="p5">The Meeting Anti-Pattern is the tendency to relegate every opportunity for customer conversation into a calendar block.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p5">Beyond being a bad use of your time and setting expectations that you’re going to show them a product, over-reliance on formal meetings can cause us to overlook perfectly good chances for serendipitous learning.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p5">Imagine that you’re in a crowded cafe, tapping away at your keyboard, when your dream boy/girl sits down next to you. They’re wearing a charming hat and give you a friendly nod before cracking open a dog-eared old novel which just totally completes the mood. You slam down a quick espresso to psych yourself up and fumble through some sort of awkward monologue about how they seem like a really nice person and this is kind of weird because you don’t even know each other but maybe they want to go get a coffee sometime? Like, a different coffee? At a different place?</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p5">We know this is a silly situation. After all, the purpose of a date is to talk to each other and see if you get along. Therefore, for all intents and purposes, you were already on a date. And then you messed it up by trying to over-formalise it when you could have just chatted a bit and skipped that whole first date completely.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p5">We’re going to pull exactly the same trick on our early customer conversations. We’re going to strip the pomp and circumstance and reduce it from a meeting to a chat. If we do it right, they won’t even know we were talking about our idea.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p5">I was considering a product idea to make office managers more efficient. I played with the possibilities on Friday, figured out the big questions over the weekend, and then went to an industry event on Monday. A handful of office managers were there and without any of them realising we’d “had a meeting”, I'd learned that the big problem was really about debt collection rather than efficiency. I got there by just being interested and chatting with them over a beer: “X seems really annoying, how do you deal with it?” “Is Y as bad as it seems?” “You guys did a great job with Z… Where did you get that from?”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p5">Being too formal is a crutch we use to deal with an admittedly ambiguous and awkward situation. Instead of leaving wiggle room for the unexpected, everything becomes a process.<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p8"><b>Symptoms of formality:</b></p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<ul class="ul1">
  <li class="li9">“So, first off, thanks for agreeing to this interview. I just have a few questions for you and then I’ll let you get back to your day…”</li>
  <li class="li9">“On a scale of 1 to 5, how much would you say you…”</li>
</ul>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p5">Learning from customers doesn’t mean you have to be wearing a suit and drinking boardroom coffee. Asking the right questions is fast and touches on topics people find quite interesting. You can talk anywhere and save yourself the formal meetings until you have something concrete to show.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p5">At their best, these conversations are a pleasure for both parties. You’re probably the first person in a long time to be truly interested in the petty annoyances of their day.<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p5"><i>Rule of thumb: </i>If it feels like they’re doing you a favour by talking to you, it’s probably too formal.</p>
</body>
</html>
