<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <meta http-equiv="Content-Style-Type" content="text/css" />
  <title></title>
  <meta name="Generator" content="Cocoa HTML Writer" />
  <meta name="CocoaVersion" content="1187.37" />
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="css/stylesheet3.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="p1"><b><a id="doc236"></a>Thanks!</b></p>
<p class="p2">It’s been fun. Thanks for reading :). I hope it was helpful. For slides, videos, and other information, check out <a href="http://momtestbook.com">momtestbook.com</a>.<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p2">When you hit a stumbling block I can help with or learn that I gave some bad advice, hit me up on twitter <a href="http://twitter.com/robfitz">@robfitz</a>.</p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p2">My blog where I write about early stage startup stuff is <a href="http://thestartuptoolkit.com">thestartuptoolkit.com</a>. Subscribe to the rss or email updates and dig through the archive.</p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p2">To learn to be a better founder, you’ve got to get your hands dirty. Startups are more craft than science. It’s something you learn by doing. The tools help, but you need to get out in the field. I’ve learned more from launching silly projects than I ever did from reading books or blogs. Make it happen.<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p2">And finally, if you’re in the business of supporting, training, mentoring, or investing in startups, I work with a few other founders building educational curriculum (slides, workshops, videos, facilitation guides, etc) at <a href="http://foundercentric.com">foundercentric.com</a>. Download resources, join the mailing list, and get involved. We’ve run training from Costa Rica to Kiev with folks ranging from Oxford to the UN. Get in touch at <a href="mailto:mom@foundercentric.com">aloha@foundercentric.com</a>.</p>
</body>
</html>
