<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <meta http-equiv="Content-Style-Type" content="text/css" />
  <title></title>
  <meta name="Generator" content="Cocoa HTML Writer" />
  <meta name="CocoaVersion" content="1187.37" />
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="css/stylesheet3.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="p1"><b><a id="doc331"></a>How many meetings</b></p>
<p class="p2">Every meeting has an opportunity cost. While you’re sitting in a bus on your way there, you aren’t writing code or generating leads or drinking wine.</p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p2">If you’re running a sales-driven business (especially enterprise sales), the opportunity cost of early conversations is low since many of them will become sales leads. You’re doubling up on learning and dealflow.<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p2">The UX community (who knows their customer conversation!) says you should keep talking to people until you stop hearing new information.<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p2">In my experience, that could take as few as 3-5 conversations if you have a relatively simple industry and a focused customer segment. If you’ve run more than 10 conversations and are still getting results that are all over the map, then I’d guess that your customer segment is too fuzzy and could stand to be tightened up.</p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p2">This isn’t about having a thousand meetings. It’s about quickly learning what you need, and then getting back to building your business. You should be able to answer almost any customer question and move onto new ones within a week.<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p2"><i>Rule of thumb: </i>Keep having conversations until you stop hearing new stuff.</p>
</body>
</html>
