<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <meta http-equiv="Content-Style-Type" content="text/css" />
  <title></title>
  <meta name="Generator" content="Cocoa HTML Writer" />
  <meta name="CocoaVersion" content="1187.37" />
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="css/stylesheet3.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="p1"><b><a id="doc358"></a>Acknowledgements</b></p>
<p class="p2">A huge thanks to all the people who helped with feedback, and especially those who took the time to write up their ridiculously useful line-by-line comments: Daniel Tenner, Andreas Klinger, Veronica Torras, Dave Chapman, Salim Virani, Sabrina Kiefer, Madeleine Evans, Spike Morelli, Adele Barlow, and Orsolya Toth. Thanks!</p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p2">Nobody gets through the startup life alone. Thanks to Paul Graham for taking a punt on us when we were so clearly clueless and to Devin, Laurence, and Ryan for getting on that crazy train. Thanks to Saul Klein for lovingly yelling at me about sales every Friday and for forcing me to actually read <i>4 Steps to the E.piphany</i>. Thanks to Steve Blank for writing it. Thanks to Peter Read and Andy C for showing me how sales really works.</p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p2">Thanks to Ian and Pete for getting us settled in London. Thanks to my peers in the Braintrust who were the perfect sounding board, and especially Salim Virani for calling me on my BS. Thanks to Tom Stone, Dave Chapman, John Spindler, and Tim Barnes for showing me the good bits of the startup education world and giving me my first chance to teach.</p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p2">Beyond the obvious influence from Steve Blank and Eric Ries, a big thanks to some other writers who have directly helped this book with their work: Amy Hoy on worldviews, Brant Cooper on segmentation, Richard Rumelt and Lafley/Martin on strategy, Neil Rackham on sales, and Derek Sivers on remembering that businesses are meant to make you happy.</p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p2">And of course, big thanks for Mom &amp; Dad for gently planting the entrepreneurial seed through both encouragement and their own collection of insane startup and/or shipwreck stories.</p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p2">The cover was put together by Devin Hunt.<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p2">The author image is provided by <a href="http://heisenbergmedia.com">heisenbergmedia.com</a>. Thanks!</p>
</body>
</html>
