<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <meta http-equiv="Content-Style-Type" content="text/css" />
  <title></title>
  <meta name="Generator" content="Cocoa HTML Writer" />
  <meta name="CocoaVersion" content="1187.37" />
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="css/stylesheet17.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="p1"><b><a id="doc113"></a>How to write it down</b></p>
<p class="p2">Taking good notes is the best way to keep your team (and investors and advisors) in the loop. Plus, notes make it harder to lie to yourself. And when, months later, you decide to adjust the business's direction, you'll be able to return to your notes instead of having to go do a whole new set of interviews.<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p2">When possible, write down exact quotes. Wrap them in quotation marks so you know it's verbatim. You can later use them in your marketing language, fundraising decks, and to resolve arguments with skeptical teammates. Other times the exact quote isn't relevant and you just write down the big idea.<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p2">In either case, add symbols to your notes as context and shorthand. I use 12 main symbols and make up more in the field as I need them. You probably won't exactly copy mine, so don't worry about memorising them. You'll build your own go-to list as you have more conversations.</p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p2">:) :( :| <span class="s1">☇</span> <span class="s2">⨅</span> <span class="s2">☐</span> <span class="s3">⤴</span> ^ <span class="s2">☑</span><span class="s3">＄♀☆</span></p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p4"><b>Emotions</b></p>
<p class="p5"><b></b><br /></p>
<p class="p2">:)<span class="Apple-tab-span">	</span>Excited</p>
<p class="p2">:( <span class="Apple-tab-span">	</span>Angry</p>
<p class="p2">:|<span class="Apple-tab-span">	</span>Embarrassed</p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p2">Someone saying "that's a problem" should be interpreted totally differently depending on whether they are neutral or outraged. Any strong emotion is worth writing down. For example, depending on your industry, you might also choose to make symbols for lust or laughter. Capture the big emotions and remember to dig into them when they come up.</p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p4"><b>Their life</b></p>
<p class="p5"><b></b><br /></p>
<p class="p2"><span class="s1">☇</span> <span class="Apple-tab-span">	</span>Pain or problem (symbol is a lightning bolt)</p>
<p class="p2"><span class="s2">⨅</span> <span class="Apple-tab-span">	</span>Goal or job-to-be-done (symbol is a soccer/football goal)</p>
<p class="p2"><span class="s2">☐</span> <span class="Apple-tab-span">	</span>Obstacle</p>
<p class="p2"><span class="s3">⤴</span><span class="Apple-tab-span">	</span>Workaround</p>
<p class="p2">^<span class="Apple-tab-span">	</span>Background or context (symbol is a distant mountain)</p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p2">These five “life” symbols are your bread and butter. Combine them with emotion symbols where appropriate. Pains and obstacles carry a lot more weight when someone is embarrassed or angry about them.<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p2">Obstacles are preventing a customer from solving their problems even though they want to. They're important because you'll probably also have to deal with them. For example, a lot of corporate folks would love to use cloud services and hate their current options, but can't use anything else because their company's IT policy is an obstacle. Their workaround might be to use their personal phone as a secondary computer or by doing certain work at home. Also worth noting.</p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p4"><b>Specifics</b></p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p2"><span class="s2">☑</span> <span class="Apple-tab-span">	</span>Feature request or purchasing criteria</p>
<p class="p2"><span class="s3">＄</span><span class="Apple-tab-span">	</span>Money or budgets or purchasing process</p>
<p class="p2"><span class="s3">♀</span> <span class="Apple-tab-span">	</span>Mentioned a specific person or company</p>
<p class="p2"><span class="s3">☆</span> <span class="Apple-tab-span">	</span>Follow-up task</p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p2">As we discussed, feature requests usually get ignored, but they're a good signal to capture and explore. Must-have purchasing criteria are obviously more important. Money signals are also key.</p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p2">Write down specific names and companies. If it’s someone they know, ask for an intro at the end of the conversation. If it’s a competitor or alternate solution, write it down to research it later.</p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p2">Put a big star on items to follow-up on after the meeting, especially next steps you promised as a condition of their advancement/commitment.</p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p1"><b><a id="doc114"></a>Where to write it down</b></p>
<p class="p2">You want to take your customer notes so that they are:</p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<ul class="ul1">
  <li class="li7">Able to be sorted, mixed, and re-arranged</li>
  <li class="li7">Able to be combined with the notes of the rest of your team</li>
  <li class="li7">Permanent and retrievable</li>
  <li class="li7">Not mixed in with other random noise like todo lists and ideas</li>
</ul>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p2">In practice, I’ve found that taking notes in my primary notebook is practically useless. Over the course of several months’ sprawl, you set an insurmountable search and retrieval task for yourself. If you won’t look at your notes, they aren’t much good.</p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p2">If you do end up taking notes in non-ideal places, you just need to spend a little extra post-meeting time moving them over into your permanent format. Otherwise you’ll be kicking yourself when you remember that amazing quote someone gave you which you can’t quite remember well enough to convince those skeptical investors.</p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p2">What is a better note-taking medium?</p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p2">Google Docs spreadsheets and Evernote are both great for team sharing, search, and retrieval. Spreadsheets are wonderfully sortable if you write your key signals in their own column. The downside is that it comes across as rude to take notes directly on a computer during a meeting, so you add a bit of mandatory post-meeting work to transfer your notes. I always found this a bit annoying, but it’s way better than losing your learning in an off-topic notebook.</p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p2">A dedicated notebook is fine, if you can remember to carry it with you and use it. For a while, I would use my regular notebook for my customer notes and then just tear out every page which wasn’t from an interview so it was easier to find them later. Hardly the most elegant.</p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p2">My favourite medium is index cards. Post-it notes also work. I carry around blank cards and take notes on them, with one quote or learning per card (along with a signal icon, of course). After the meeting I jot down the date and name of the person on each card. It takes a couple minutes, but it’s faster than moving over all your notes. When we review, we lay the cards out on the table and sort through them. Cards are great because of the random access and sorting. If you learn that the problem you’re solving doesn’t really matter, you can just pull out all the cards marked with a lightning bolt and find yourself a new problem that’s already been confirmed.</p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p2">When I first started, I would make audio recordings, but that suffered from the same problem as notebooks. I'd end up with a ton of content and no real way to sort it or find the bit I wanted, so I ended up ignoring the recordings.</p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p2">If you <i>do</i> want to use audio, you’ll find people are surprisingly willing to be recorded. Put your phone on the table as you sit down and say, “Hey, is it cool if I record this, because I’m always paranoid I’ll miss something important in my notes. It won’t get shared with anyone or posted anywhere.” Almost everyone says yes, but it does blow your cover if you’re trying to Keep it Casual.</p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p2">If you embrace Keeping it Casual, you'll find customer conversations appearing out of nowhere and catching you by surprise. Just go with it. I've got notes written on paper plates from a pizza party, on beer mats from the pub, and on newspapers from the cafe. You'll want to transfer them over to your main storage system once you get back to the office, but it's better to capture what's said on something weird than to try to remember all the important bits.</p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p2">If it’s totally inappropriate to take notes during the chat, just have the conversation and then immediately retreat to a corner to write down what was said. This is how I usually handle customer conversations at the pub or conferences.</p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p2">Regardless of the medium, the most important thing is that the notes are lightweight enough that you'll actually review them yourself and with your team.<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p2"><i>Rule of thumb: </i>Notes are useless if you don't look at them.</p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p1"><b><a id="doc176"></a>The process</b></p>
<p class="p2">Talking to customers is a tool, not an obligation. If it’s not going to help or you don’t want to do it for whatever reason, just skip it. I’m sure you’ve been on the receiving end of a half-assed survey sent out by some new startup to tick the box marked “learn from customers” on their startup todo list. There are better ways to waste your time.</p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p2">Without figuring out what actually matters to your company and how to deal with it effectively, you’re just going through the motions.<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p2">When it comes to conversations, it looks like this:</p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p4"><b>Signs you’re just going through the motions:</b></p>
<ul class="ul1">
  <li class="li8"><br /></li>
  <li class="li7">You’re talking more than they are</li>
  <li class="li7">They are complimenting you or your idea</li>
  <li class="li7">You told them about your idea and don’t know what’s happening next</li>
  <li class="li7">You don’t have notes</li>
  <li class="li7">You haven’t looked through your notes with your team</li>
  <li class="li7">You got an unexpected answer and it didn’t change your idea</li>
  <li class="li7">You weren’t scared of any of the questions you asked</li>
  <li class="li7">You aren’t sure which big question you’re trying to answer by doing this</li>
</ul>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p2">The persistent presence of any of these problems suggests that you’re doing something wrong and wasting your time.</p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p2">Here are the steps I go through to keep on track. Feel free to ignore or tweak as needed given your situation and company. It’s as light-weight as I’ve been able to get it and should reduce rather than increase the amount of time you need to spend on conversations.</p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p4"><b>The process before a batch of conversations:</b></p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<ul class="ul1">
  <li class="li7">If you haven’t yet, choose a focused, findable segment</li>
  <li class="li7">With your team, decide your big 3 learning goals</li>
  <li class="li7">If relevant, decide on ideal next steps and commitments</li>
  <li class="li7">If conversations are the right tool, figure out who to talk to</li>
  <li class="li7">Create a series of best guesses about what the person cares about</li>
  <li class="li7">If a question could be answered via desk research, do that first</li>
</ul>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p4"><b>During the conversation:</b></p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<ul class="ul1">
  <li class="li7">Frame the conversation</li>
  <li class="li7">Keep it casual</li>
  <li class="li7">Ask good questions which pass The Mom Test</li>
  <li class="li7">Deflect compliments, anchor fluff, and dig beneath signals</li>
  <li class="li7">Take good notes</li>
  <li class="li7">If relevant, press for commitment and next steps</li>
</ul>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p4"><b>After a batch of conversations:</b></p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<ul class="ul1">
  <li class="li7">With your team, review your notes and key customer quotes</li>
  <li class="li7">If relevant, transfer notes into permanent storage</li>
  <li class="li7">Update your beliefs and plans</li>
  <li class="li7">Decide on the next 3 big questions</li>
</ul>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p2">The goal of this process is twofold. Firstly, to make sure you're spending your time well by attacking the questions which really matter and using the whole founding team’s brains. Secondly, to spread any new learning through your team as quickly and completely as possible.</p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p2">There you go. Now you know everything I do about how to learn from conversations. Combine this process with The Mom Test, Keeping it Casual, and Advancement for maximum learning in minimum time. But even if it goes wrong, don’t worry so much. Eternity will forgive.</p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p1"><b><a id="doc382"></a>This stuff is fast</b></p>
<p class="p2">The time scales of the process are important. The point is to make your business move faster, not slower.<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p2">Don’t spend a week prepping for meetings; spend an hour and then go talk to people. Anything more is stalling.<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p2">Don’t spend months doing full-time customer conversations before beginning to move on a product. Spend a week, maybe two. Get your bearings and then give them something to commit to.</p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p2">You’ll keep talking to customers for the life of your company, of course. I’m not advising you to become a recluse after the first two weeks. Your customers are a crucial source of ongoing insight and will help catch any badgers in the bush, so to speak. With the tools in this book (especially Keeping it Casual) you should be able to keep benefitting from customer learning without spending any real time on it. You can do it alongside growing your business rather than in place of it.<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p2">This stuff moves really quickly when you’re doing it right. This book isn’t meant you an excuse to squander precious months on theorising. It’s meant to help you extract maximum value in minimum time from conversations so you can get back to what really matters: building your business.</p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p2"><i>Rule of thumb:</i> Go build your dang company already.</p>
</body>
</html>
