<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <meta http-equiv="Content-Style-Type" content="text/css" />
  <title></title>
  <meta name="Generator" content="Cocoa HTML Writer" />
  <meta name="CocoaVersion" content="1187.37" />
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="css/stylesheet2.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="p1"><span class="s1"></span><br /></p>
<p class="p1"><span class="s1"></span><br /></p>
<p class="p1"><span class="s1"></span><br /></p>
<p class="p1"><span class="s1"></span><br /></p>
<p class="p1"><span class="s1"></span><br /></p>
<p class="p1"><span class="s1"></span><br /></p>
<h3 style="margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px; text-align: center; text-indent: 0.0px; font-size: 327%"><b><a id="doc267"></a>Introduction</b></h3>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p4">Trying to learn from customer conversations is like excavating a delicate archaeological site. The truth is down there somewhere, but it’s fragile. While each blow with your shovel gets you closer to the truth, you’re liable to smash it into a million little pieces if you use too blunt an instrument.</p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p4">I see a lot of teams using a bulldozer and crate of dynamite for their excavation. They are, in one way or another, forcing people to say something nice about their business. They use heavy-handed questions like “do you think it’s a good idea” and shatter their prize.</p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p4">At the other end of the spectrum, some founders are using a toothbrush to unearth a city, flinching away from digging deep and finding out whether anything of value is actually buried down there.</p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p4">We want to find the truth of how to make our business succeed. We need to dig for it—and dig deep—but every question we ask carries the very real possibility of biasing the person we’re talking to and rendering the whole exercise pointless. It happens more than you’d ever imagine.</p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p4">The truth is our goal and questions are our tools. But we must learn to wield them. It’s delicate work. And well worth learning. There’s treasure below.</p>
</body>
</html>
