<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <meta http-equiv="Content-Style-Type" content="text/css" />
  <title></title>
  <meta name="Generator" content="Cocoa HTML Writer" />
  <meta name="CocoaVersion" content="1187.37" />
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="css/stylesheet3.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="p1"><b><a id="doc271"></a>To commute or to call</b></p>
<p class="p2">One of the solutions to the time cost of these conversations is to move them onto Skype or phone calls. In most situations, I don’t think the added volume is worth the information you lose by not being in the room. I get confused enough by what people are telling me in person. Losing access to their face and body language feels like shooting myself in the foot.</p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p2">More subtly, calls damage the delicate power dynamic of these conversations. When someone is having a coffee with you, there’s the potential to chat as friends. You can just shoot the breeze about the industry for a bit. You can keep it casual. They’re enjoying the conversation</p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p2">The same is decidedly not true on the phone or Skype. People try to squeeze calls in between other activities, wondering how quickly they can “finish with business” and hang up. Folks on the phone are super annoyed when you “just want to chat”. So you need to make the whole thing more formal, which is one of the exact mistakes we’re trying to avoid!</p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p2">Phone calls end up sounding more like scripted interviews than natural conversations, because they are. It’s a constraint of the medium.</p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p2">Plus, nobody becomes friends over the phone, which means you aren't going to get the warm intros and future meetings you need. Setting up a call feels like less overhead in the short-term, but that’s because you aren’t yet able to see all the time-saving and business-saving benefits of in-person relationships with your customers.<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p2">That being said, some other great people in the field like and recommend phone calls. Use whatever works. But I will say that you should <i>start</i> in person. It’s too easy to use surveys or phone calls as an excuse to skip the awkwardness of meeting in person rather than as a considered trade-off.</p>
</body>
</html>
