<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <meta http-equiv="Content-Style-Type" content="text/css" />
  <title></title>
  <meta name="Generator" content="Cocoa HTML Writer" />
  <meta name="CocoaVersion" content="1187.37" />
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="css/stylesheet12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="p1"><span class="s1"></span><br /></p>
<p class="p1"><span class="s1"></span><br /></p>
<p class="p1"><span class="s1"></span><br /></p>
<p class="p1"><span class="s1"></span><br /></p>
<p class="p1"><span class="s1"></span><br /></p>
<p class="p1"><span class="s1"></span><br /></p>
<h2 style="margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px; text-align: center; text-indent: 0.0px; font-size: 100%"><a id="doc68"></a>CHAPTER FIVE</h2>
<h3 style="margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px; text-align: center; text-indent: 0.0px; font-size: 327%"><b>Commitment and advancement</b></h3>
<p class="p4"><b></b><br /></p>
<p class="p5">Once we've learned the key facts about our industry and customers, it’s time to zoom in again and start revealing our idea and showing some product. The bad news is that this invites nefarious compliments. The <i>good</i> news is that since we have the beginnings of a product, we're now in a position to cut through the false positives by asking for commitments.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p5">In sales, moving a sales relationship to the next stage is called "advancement". It's like pushing a customer into the next step of your real-world acquisition funnel. They'll either move forward or make it clear that they're not a customer. Both are good results for your learning.<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p5">When you fail to push for advancement, you end up with zombie leads: potential customers (or investors) who keep taking meetings with you and saying nice things, but who never seem to cut a check. It's like your startup has been friend-zoned. Thankfully, you caused it, and <i>that</i> means you can fix it. It's a consequence of being clingy and fearing rejection. By giving them a clear chance to either commit or reject us, we get out of the friend-zone and can identify the real leads.<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p5">As always, you’re not trying to convince every person to like what you’re doing. When you’ve got the information you came for (even if it’s that they don’t care), you can leave. But at some point, you do need to put them to a decision in order to get it.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7"><b>Symptoms:</b></p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<ul class="ul1">
  <li class="li8">A pipeline of zombie leads</li>
  <li class="li8">Ending product meetings with a compliment</li>
  <li class="li8">Ending product meetings with no clear next steps</li>
  <li class="li8">Meetings which "went well"</li>
  <li class="li8">They haven't given up anything of value</li>
</ul>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p5">As I use them in a customer learning context, commitment and advancement are separate concepts which overlap quite a lot and tend to appear together.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<ul class="ul1">
  <li class="li8"><b></b>Commitment — They are showing they’re serious by giving up something they value such as time, reputation, or money.<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></li>
  <li class="li8">Advancement — They are moving to the next step of your real-world funnel and getting closer to a sale.</li>
</ul>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p5">Commitment and advancement often arrive hand-in-hand. For example, to move to the next step (advancement), you might need an introduction to your contact’s boss (reputation commitment). As such, they are functionally equivalent for our purposes and I’m going to blur them into one concept for the following sections.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p5"><i>Rule of thumb: </i>“Customers” who keep being friendly but aren’t ever going to buy are a particularly dangerous source of mixed signals.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p9"><b><a id="doc104"></a>Meetings succeed or fail</b></p>
<p class="p5">It took me years to learn that there’s no such thing as a meeting which just "went well". Every meeting either succeeds or fails. You've lost the meeting when you leave with a compliment or a stalling tactic. While we might spot something as blatant as "Let's talk again after the holidays... Don't call me, I'll call you," we accept the more subtle versions every day.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p5">A meeting has succeeded when it ends with a commitment to advance to the next step. But you have to force this resolution or the meetings drift along in la-la-land while performing their ancient duty: wasting everyone’s time.<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p5">If you leave with worthless wishy washiness, I'd bet you're falling for one or both of the following traps:</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<ol class="ol1">
  <li class="li8">You're asking for their opinion about your idea (e.g. fishing for compliments)</li>
  <li class="li8">You're not asking for a clear commitment or next steps</li>
</ol>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p5">You know how to deal with compliments by now: deflect, ignore, and get back to business. Commitments are similarly easy to master, once we know what we’re looking for. When we leave without a commitment, sometimes it’s because we asked and got rejected. That’s sad, but it happens. Not everyone is going to convert and at least you now know where you stand. You have a strong negative data point.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p5">The real failure is listed above as #2: not even asking. I never consider rejection to be a real failure. But not asking certainly is. This can happen because you avoid the scary question or because you haven’t figured out what the next steps should be.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p5">Commitment is important. It tells us whether people are actually telling the truth. The more they give us, the more we can trust what they say.<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p5"><i>Rule of thumb: </i>If you don’t know what happens next after a product or sales meeting, the meeting was pointless.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p9"><b><a id="doc129"></a>The currencies of conversation</b></p>
<p class="p5">Commitment can be cash, but doesn’t have to be. Think of it in terms of currency—what are they giving up for you? A compliment costs them nothing, so it’s worth nothing and carries no data. The major currencies are time, reputation risk, and cash.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p5">A time commitment could include:<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<ul class="ul1">
  <li class="li8">Clear next meeting with known goals</li>
  <li class="li8">Sitting down to give feedback on wireframes</li>
  <li class="li8">Using a trial themselves for a non-trivial period</li>
</ul>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p5">Reputation risk commitments might be:<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<ul class="ul1">
  <li class="li8">Intro to peers or team</li>
  <li class="li8">Intro to a decision maker (boss, spouse, lawyer)</li>
  <li class="li8">Giving a public testimonial or case study</li>
</ul>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p5">Financial commitments are easier to imagine and include:</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<ul class="ul1">
  <li class="li8">Letter of intent (non-legal but gentlemanly agreement to purchase)</li>
  <li class="li8">Pre-order</li>
  <li class="li8">Deposit</li>
</ul>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p5">Sometimes, strong commitments combine multiple currencies, such as someone agreeing to run a paid trial with their whole team, thus risking their time, money, and reputation.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p5">Just like compliments aren’t data when you’re trying to learn about a problem, they also aren’t progress when you’re trying to validate a product. Hearing a compliment can still be useful though—it’s a warning flag that the person you’re talking to is trying to get rid of you.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p5"><i>Rule of thumb:</i> The more they’re giving up, the more seriously you can take their kind words.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<h3 style="margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px; text-indent: 0.0px; font-size: 164%"><b><a id="doc102"></a>Good meeting / bad meeting</b></h3>
<p class="p11"><b><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span></b></p>
<p class="p5">Game time again. We just had a meeting. But how did it go? Were they good meetings or bad meetings? Why? And if they’re bad, what can we do to fix them?</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p5">Have a think about the meetings listed below and then turn the page for further discussion.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p12">“That’s so cool. I love it!”</p>
<p class="p12">“Looks great. Let me know when it launches.”</p>
<p class="p12">“There are a couple people I can intro you to when you’re ready.”</p>
<p class="p12">“What are the next steps?”</p>
<p class="p12">“I would definitely buy that.”</p>
<p class="p12">“When can we start the trial?”</p>
<p class="p12">“Can I buy the prototype?”</p>
<p class="p12">“When can you come back to talk to the rest of the team?”</p>
</body>
</html>
