<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <meta http-equiv="Content-Style-Type" content="text/css" />
  <title></title>
  <meta name="Generator" content="Cocoa HTML Writer" />
  <meta name="CocoaVersion" content="1187.37" />
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="css/stylesheet3.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="p1"><b><a id="doc360"></a>How long are meetings?</b></p>
<p class="p2">Early conversations are very fast. The chats grow longer as you move from the early broad questions (“Is this a real problem?”) toward more specific product and industry issues (“Which other software do we have to integrate with to close the sale?”).<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p2">It only takes 5 minutes to learn whether a problem exists and is important. Learning how someone currently achieves a certain goal or solves a problem is also quick.</p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p2">Soon you’ll find yourself asking questions which are answered with long stories explaining their workflow, how they spend their time, or what else they’ve tried. You can usually get what you came for in 10-15 minutes, but people love telling stories about themselves, so you can keep this conversation going indefinitely if it’s valuable for you and interesting for them.</p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p2">At the longer extreme, learning the details of an industry takes an hour or more. Thankfully, those are easier conversations to manage since the other person (usually some sort of industry expert) can go into a monologue once you point them in the right direction.<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p2">The duration of formal B2B meetings (the kind you schedule) is determined more by the arbitrary calendar block than by what you actually want to learn. Of course, you've liable to burn 15 minutes just to get a cup of tea and say hello.<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p2">Once you have a product and the meetings take on a more sales-oriented feel, you’ll want to start carving out clear blocks of 30+ minutes. You might lose 5 minutes due to miscellaneous tardiness, spend 5 minutes saying hello, 5 minutes asking questions to understand their goals/problems/budget, 10 minutes to show/describe the product, and the last 5 minutes figuring out next steps and advancement. That's your half hour.</p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p2">The potential speed of the early conversations one of the big reasons I like keeping it casual and skipping the meeting. Scheduling and going to a meeting has a lot of overhead for a 10 minute chat. Even explaining that you’re starting a company and would love to ask a couple questions can take 5 or 10 minutes. You'll make progress a lot faster if you’re able to leave your idea out of it for as long as possible.</p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p1"><b><a id="doc159"></a>Putting it together</b></p>
<p class="p2">Even within a more formal meeting, you still might want to keep it casual if you’re hoping to get non-biased feedback.</p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p2">I once had a product idea to help busy investors to manage their dealflow. I knew they got hundreds of applications per month and figured it must be a spreadsheet nightmare. I lined up a couple meetings to ask about the industry. I showed up to the first meeting and, while making smalltalk, said something like “I was thinking, you guys must get a ton of leads, right?” The guy laughed and said, yeah, it was crazy. “How in the world do you deal with all of that?” He sort of shrugged and pointed at a cluster of about a dozen sticky notes on the wall.<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p2">Each held a name and a phone number. “Our analysts kill most of them before they ever reach us, and then we throw out a bunch more. We only end up with about 10 apiece that are serious contenders. We just call every couple weeks to see how it’s going.” Well that doesn’t sound so bad, I said. “Yeah, it works pretty well,” he replied. “Anyway, what did you want to talk about?”<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p2">They don’t have the problem. That’s successful learning. We disproved our idea before the guy even realised we were talking about it. It took 5 minutes, avoided biases, and didn’t feed us any bad data in the form of compliments, fluff, or ideas. Instead, we got concrete facts about our customers which are directly relevant to our core business questions.</p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p2">Of course, it took me a 2-hour commute to get to those 5 minutes. It can’t be perfect every time.</p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p2">In the aforementioned case, we proved ourselves wrong. Sometimes, however, it goes in the opposite direction and everything we learn from customers makes us even more excited. In that case, we stand atop all that we’ve learned and take the visionary leap of coming up with a specific product and business to make our customers’ lives better. And then we ask them to commit to it.</p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p2"><i>Rule of thumb: </i>Give as little information as possible about your idea while still nudging the discussion in a useful direction.</p>
</body>
</html>
