<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <meta http-equiv="Content-Style-Type" content="text/css" />
  <title></title>
  <meta name="Generator" content="Cocoa HTML Writer" />
  <meta name="CocoaVersion" content="1187.37" />
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="css/stylesheet3.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="p1"><b><a id="doc157"></a>Reviewing</b></p>
<p class="p2">After a conversation, just review your notes with your team and update your beliefs and 3 big questions as appropriate.<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p2">The goal is to ensure the learning is now on paper and in everyone’s head instead of just in yours. Talk through the key quotes and main takeaways of the conversation, as well as any problems you ran into.<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p2">I also like to talk about the meta-level of the conversation itself: which questions worked and which didn’t? How can we do better next time? Were there any important signals or questions we missed? This stuff is more craft than science: you have to actively practice it to get better. It’s a valuable skill for your team to have, so it’s worth spending a bit of time improving.</p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p2">Just like prepping, reviewing is so simple that it sounds like a non-step. It’s tempting to skip it. Don’t! The review is important. Disseminate learnings to your team as quickly and as directly as possible, using notes and exact quotes wherever you can. It keeps you in sync, leads to better decisions, prevents arguments, and allows your whole team to benefit from the learning you’ve worked so hard to acquire.</p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p1"><b><a id="doc115"></a>Who should show up</b></p>
<p class="p2">Everyone on the team who is making big decisions (including tech decisions) needs to go to at least some of the meetings. The tech guys don’t need to go to most of the meetings, but you’ll all learn a ton from hearing customer reactions first-hand occasionally. You’ll also be able to help each other catch and fix your conversation mistakes and biases.</p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p2">Meetings go best when you've got two people at them. One person can focus on taking notes and the other can focus on talking. As the second person, sometimes you'll notice the lead asking bad questions or missing a signal they should be digging into. Just jump in and fix them.</p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p2">Don’t send more than two people unless it’s group-on-group or you’ve got a particularly good reason to do so. Three folks interviewing someone can be a little overwhelming.</p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p2">Going in solo is fine once you get good at taking concise notes. The main problem of running solo is that it's harder to catch yourself and recover once you start going off-track asking bad questions or missing the point.</p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p2">If you’re shy and have no cofounder to take the lead, call in a favour with a friend to come to your first couple conversations with you. You can just play the role of the note-taker until you’re comfortable. If there’s no workaround and you have to bite the bullet, remember that confidence is domain-specific. Instead of suffering through, focus on getting better and understanding the process. It will get less scary as you improve.</p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p2">You can't outsource or hire someone to do customer learning. There are exceptional team dynamics where it works, but generally speaking, the founders need to be in the meetings themselves. When a hired gun brings you bad news (“This problem isn't real and nobody cares about what we're doing”), properly assimilating it is difficult.</p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p2">More insidiously, if the signal is lukewarm, it’s tempting for a hire to gloss over it. Hiring out your learning is a guaranteed way to get bad signals. Until you've got a working business model and a repeatable sales or marketing process, the founders need to be in the meetings themselves.</p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p2">On the bright side, even though you have to be in the room to process the learning, you don't necessarily have to be the one setting up or leading the meetings. You can hire people to help as long as you’re there with them, listening.</p>
</body>
</html>
