<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <meta http-equiv="Content-Style-Type" content="text/css" />
  <title></title>
  <meta name="Generator" content="Cocoa HTML Writer" />
  <meta name="CocoaVersion" content="1187.37" />
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="css/stylesheet8.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="p1"><a id="doc300"></a>"That's so cool. I love it!"</p>
<p class="p2">Bad meeting. Pure, unadulterated compliment. This may make you feel good, but there is precisely zero data here. But at least you won’t hurt yourself on this one since it’s so obviously fluff.</p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p2">To fix it, deflect the compliment and get back to business.</p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p1"><a id="doc301"></a>"Looks great. Let me know when it launches."</p>
<p class="p2">Bad meeting. A compliment plus a stalling tactic is the classic way to end a pitch for something you’re never going to buy. This comes in a lot of flavours, but they’re all basically a polite way to say, “Don’t call me, I’ll call you.”<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p2">The big error you can make here is to mistake this compliment-stall for a pre-order (“He said he’ll buy it when it launches!”). To fix it, I’d look for a commitment I could ask for today.<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p2">If I was very early stage, I might ask for an introduction to his boss or tech team or the budget-holder so I can make sure I fully understand their needs.<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p3"><br /></p>
<p class="p2">If I was slightly further through development, I might push him to agree to be one of our alpha users and to roll it out to some subset of their team and be a case study for launch. If I’ve hit on a real problem, he’ll jump at the chance to start making progress today and get early access.</p>
</body>
</html>
