<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>The Four Steps to the Epiphany</title>
<meta content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="Content-Type"/>
<link href="styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:46a28ab3-fee0-447d-bc83-42b53c2716cf" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<h1 class="chapter2" id="biblio"><a id="page264"/><a id="page265"/><a href="http://steveblank.com/books-for-startups/">Bibliography</a></h1>
<h3 class="left40">Entrepreneurial Management Stack</h3>
<p class="noind">Over the last few years we’ve discovered that startups are not smaller versions of large companies. The skills founders need are not covered by traditional books for MBAs and large company managers. There are now a few books that specifically address founders’ needs. Alexander Osterwalder’s <i>Business Model Generation</i> is the first book that allows you to answer “What’s your business model?” intelligently and with precision. Make sure this one is on your shelf.</p>
<p class="noind">Eric Ries was the best student I ever had. He took the Customer Development process, combined it with Agile Engineering, and actually did the first implementation in a startup. His insights about the combined Customer Development/Agile process and its implications past startups into large corporations is a sea change in thinking. His book, <i>The Lean Startup,</i> is a “must-have” for your shelf.</p>
<p class="noind">It’s impossible to implement any of this if you don’t understand Agile Development. <i>Extreme Programming Explained</i> by one of the pioneers of Agile, Kent Beck, is a great tutorial. If you don’t understand Values, Principles and Practices in XP it makes Customer Development almost impossible.</p>
<p class="noind">If you’re in a large company, <i>the other side of innovation</i> makes sense of how to insert innovation into an execution organization. If you’re starting a medical device company <i>Biodesign: The Process of Innovating Medical Technologies</i> is a must-have. It has a great customer discovery process.</p>
<ul class="disc">
	<li><i>Business Model Generation —</i> Alexander Osterwalder</li>
	<li><i>The Lean Startup —</i> Eric Ries</li>
	<li><i>Extreme Programming Explained —</i> Kent Beck</li>
	<li><i>The other side of innovation —</i> Vijay Govindarajan &amp; Chris Trimble</li>
	<li><i>Biodesign: The Process of Innovating Medical Technologies —</i> Zenios, Makower, Yock, et al</li>
	<li><i>The Four Steps to the Epiphany —</i> Steve Blank</li>
	<li><i>The Startup Owner’s Manual —</i> Steve Blank and Bob Dorf</li>
	<li><i>The Startup Owner’s Manual Founder’s Workbook,</i> a digital workbook companion to <i>The Startup Owner’s Manual</i></li>
</ul>
<h3 class="left20" id="page266">Must-Read Books</h3>
<p class="noind"><i>The other side of innovation</i> is the closest recipe I’ve read for getting entrepreneurship right in large companies. <i>Innovator’s Dilemma</i> and <i>Innovator’s Solution</i> helped me refine the notion of the Four Types of Startup Markets. I read these books as the handbook for startups trying to disrupt an established company. <i>The Innovators DNA</i> rings true about the skills founders need to have. <i>Crossing the Chasm</i> made me understand that there are repeatable patterns in early stage companies. It started my search for the repeatable set of patterns that preceded the chasm. The <i>Tipping Point</i> has made me realize that marketing communications strategies for companies in New Markets often follow the Tipping Point. <i>Blue Ocean Strategy</i> is a great way to look at what I’ve called “market type.”</p>
<ul class="disc">
	<li><i>the other side of innovation</i> - Vijay Govindarajan &amp; Chris Trimble</li>
	<li><i>The Innovator’s Dilemma</i> &amp; <i>The Innovator’s Solution</i> - Clayton M. Christensen</li>
	<li><i>The Innovator’s DNA: Mastering the Five Skills of Disruptive Innovators</i> - Jeff Dyer, Hal Gregersen, Clayton M. Christensen</li>
	<li><i>Crossing the Chasm: Marketing and Selling High-Tech Products to Mainstream Customers</i></li>
	<li><i>Inside the Tornado: Marketing Strategies from Silicon Valley’s Cutting Edge</i></li>
	<li><i>Dealing with Darwin: How Great Companies Innovate at Every Phase of Their Evolution</i> - all three by Geoffrey A. Moore</li>
	<li><i>The Tipping Point: How Little Things Can Make a Big Difference</i> - Malcolm Gladwell</li>
	<li><i>Blue Ocean Strategy: How to Create Uncontested Market Space and Make Competition Irrelevant</i> - R. Mauborgne and W. C. Kim</li>
</ul>
<h3 class="left20">Strategy Books for Startups</h3>
<p class="noind"><i>The Marketing Playbook</i> gives marketers five strategy options, teaches gap analysis and offer tactical marketing campaign advice. <i>Do More Faster</i> identifies issues that first-time entrepreneurs encounter and offers useful advice. <i>Getting Real</i> is web-focused. Noam Wasserman’s <i>Founders Dilemma</i> is essential reading to building a great startup team.</p>
<p class="ind">These books are timeless classics. <i>The Entrepreneurial Mindset</i> articulates the critically important idea that there are different types of startup opportunities. The notion of three Market Types springs from here and Christensen’s work. The book provides a framework<a id="page267"/> for the early marketing/sales strategies essential in a startup. <i>Delivering Profitable Value</i> talks more about value propositions and value delivery systems than you ever want to hear again. However, this is one of the books you struggle through and then realize you learned something valuable. Schumpeter’s book <i>Theory of Economic Development</i> is famous for his phrase “creative destruction” and its relevance to entrepreneurship. Peter Drucker’s <i>Concept of the Corporation</i> was the first insider’s view of how a decentralized company (GM) works. His <i>Innovation and Entrepreneurship</i> is a classic. While written for a corporate audience, read it for the sources of innovation. If you write software, you already know about Fred Brooks’ time-honored text, <i>The Mythical Man Month.</i> If you manage a software company you need to read it so you don’t act like Dilbert’s pointy-haired boss. Peppers &amp; Rogers, <i>The One to One Future</i> opened my eyes to concepts of lifetime value, most profitable customers and the entire customer lifecycle of “get, keep and grow.” Bill Davidow’s <i>Marketing High Technology</i> introduced me to the concept of “whole product” and the unique needs of mainstream customers. Michael Porter is the father of competitive strategy. His books <i>Competitive Strategy, Competitive Advantage,</i> and <i>On Competition</i> are still the standards.</p>
<ul class="disc">
	<li><i>The Marketing Playbook</i> - John Zagula and Richard Tong</li>
	<li><i>Do More Faster: Techstar lessons to accelerate your startup</i> - David Cohen and Brad Feld</li>
	<li><i>Getting Real: The smarter, faster, easier way to build a successful web application</i> - Jason Fried</li>
	<li><i>The Founder’s Dilemma: Anticipating and Avoiding the Pitfalls that Can Sink a Startup</i> - Noam Wasserman</li>
	<li><i>The Entrepreneurial Mindset: Strategies for Continuously Creating Opportunity in an Age of Uncertainty</i> - R. McGrath and I. MacMillan</li>
	<li><i>Delivering Profitable Value</i> - Michael J. Lanning.</li>
	<li><i>Theory of Economic Development</i> - Joseph Schumpeter</li>
	<li><i>Concept of the Corporation and Innovation and Entrepreneurship</i> - Peter Drucker</li>
	<li><i>The Mythical Man Month</i> - Fred Brooks</li>
	<li><i>The One to One Future: Building Relationships One Customer at a Time</i> - Don Peppers, Martha Rogers</li>
	<li><i>Marketing High Technology: An Insider’s View</i> and <i>Total Customer Service: The Ultimate Weapon</i> - William H. Davidow</li>
	<li><i>Competitive Strategy, Competitive Advantage,</i> and <i>On Competition</i> - all by Michael Porter</li>
</ul>
<h3 class="left20" id="page268">Innovation and Entrepreneurship in the Enterprise</h3>
<p class="noind">How large companies can stay innovative and entrepreneurial has been the Holy Grail for authors of business books, business schools, consulting firms, etc. There’s some great work from lots of authors in this area but I’d start by reading <i>the other side of innovation.</i> Next I’d read <i>The Future of Management</i> and consider its implications.</p>
<p class="ind">Then I’d read the short Harvard Business Review articles. Eric Von Hippel’s work on new product introduction methodologies and the notion of “Lead Users” offer many parallels with Customer Discovery and Validation. But like most books on the subject it’s written from the point of view of a large company. Von Hippel’s four steps of 1) goal generation and team formation, 2) trend research, 3) lead user pyramid networking and 4) lead user workshop and idea improvement is a more rigorous and disciplined approach than suggested in my book, <i>The Four Steps to the Epiphany.</i></p>
<h4 class="left20">Books</h4>
<ul class="disc">
	<li><i>the other side of innovation</i> - Vijay Govindarajan and Chris Trimble</li>
	<li><i>Innovator’s Dilemma</i> &amp; <i>The Innovator’s Solution</i> - Clayton Christensen</li>
	<li><i>The Future of Management</i> - Gary Hamel</li>
	<li><i>Winning Through Innovation: A Practical Guide to Leading Organizational Change and Renewal</i> - Charles O’Reilly</li>
	<li><i>Breakthrough Products with Lead User Research</i> - Eric Von Hippel and Mary Sonnack</li>
	<li><i>The Sources of Innovation</i> - Eric Von Hippel</li>
</ul>
<h4 class="left20">Harvard Business Review Articles</h4>
<ul class="disc">
	<li><i>Meeting the Challenge of Disruptive Change</i> - Clayton Christensen/Michael Overdorf: March/April 2000</li>
	<li><i>The Quest for Resilience</i> - Gary Hamel/Liisa Valikangas: Sept. 2003</li>
	<li><i>The Ambidextrous Organization</i> - Charles O’Reilly/Michael Tushman: April 2004</li>
	<li><i>Darwin and the Demon: Innovating Within Established Enterprises</i> - Geoffrey Moore: July/August 2004</li>
	<li><i>Meeting the Challenge of Corporate Entrepreneurship</i> - David Garvin/Lynne Levesque: Oct. 2006</li>
	<li>The Innovator’s DNA - Jeffrey Dyer, Hal Gregersen, Clayton Christensen: Dec. 2009</li>
</ul>
<h3 class="left20" id="page269">“War as Strategy” Books</h3>
<p class="noind">The metaphor that business is war is a cliché that points to a deeper truth. Many basic business concepts; competition, leadership, strategy versus tactics, logistics, etc. have their roots in military affairs. The difference is that in business no one dies. At some time in your business life you need to study war or become a casualty. Sun Tzu covered all the basics of strategy in <i>The Art of War</i> until the advent of technology temporarily superseded him. Also, in the same vein try <i>The Book of Five Rings</i> by Miyamoto Musashi. These two books have unfortunately become business clichés but they remain timeless reading. Carl Von Clausewitz’s <i>On War</i> is a 19th-century western attempt to understand war. The “Boyd” book, <i>The Fighter Pilot Who Changed the Art of War,</i> is a biography and may seem out of place here, but John Boyd’s OODA loop is at the core of Customer Development and the Pivot. Read it and then look at all the websites for Boyd papers, particularly <i>Patterns of Conflict. The New Lanchester Strategy</i> is so offbeat that it tends to be overlooked. Its ratios of what you require to attack or defend a market keep coming up so often in real life that I’ve found it hard to ignore.</p>
<ul class="disc">
	<li><i>The Art of War by Sun Tzu —</i> translated by Thomas Cleary, or the one by Griffith</li>
	<li><i>The Book of Five Rings —</i> Miyamoto Musashi</li>
	<li><i>On War —</i> Carl Von Clausewitz’s Everyman’s Library Series</li>
	<li><i>Boyd: The Fighter Pilot Who Changed the Art of War —</i> Robert Coram</li>
	<li><i>The Mind of War: John Boyd and American Security —</i> Grant T. Hammond</li>
	<li><i>Lanchester Strategy: An Introduction —</i> Taoka</li>
	<li><i>New Lanchester Strategy: Sales and Marketing Strategy for the Weak (New Lanchester Strategy) —</i> Shinichi Yano, Kenichi Sato, Connie Prener</li>
</ul>
<h3 class="left20">Marketing Communications Books</h3>
<p class="noind">Ries and Trout positioning books can be read in a plane ride, yet after all these years they are still a smack on the side of the head. Regis McKenna has always been a favorite of mine. However, as you read <i>Relationship Marketing</i> separate out the examples McKenna uses into either startups or large sustainable businesses. What worked in one won’t necessarily work in another. Read these books first before you dive into the 21st-century stuff like Seth Godin.</p>
<p class="ind">Godin “gets deeply” the profound changes the Internet is having in the way we think about customers and communicating with them. Godin’s <i>All Marketers are Liars</i> talks<a id="page270"/> about the power of storytelling in marketing. His <i>Permission Marketing</i> book crystallized a direct marketing technique (permission marketing), which was simply impossible to achieve pre-Internet. Read his <i>Ideavirus</i> after you’ve read <i>Permission Marketing. Made to Stick</i> gives you the tools to make your messages “sticky.” I put <i>Sway</i> here because great marketers know how to find these irrational behaviors Lakoff’s book, <i>Don’t Think of an Elephant!</i> while written for a political audience has some valuable insights on framing communications.</p>
<ul class="disc">
	<li><i>Positioning: The Battle for Your Mind The 20th Anniversary Edition and The 22 Immutable Laws of Marketing: Violate Them at Your Own Risk —</i> Al Ries, Jack Trout</li>
	<li><i>All Marketers Are Liars —</i> Seth Godin</li>
	<li><i>Made to Stick: Why Some Ideas Survive and Others Die —</i> Chip and Dan Heath</li>
	<li><i>Relationship Marketing: Successful Strategies for the Age of the Customer —</i> Regis McKenna</li>
	<li><i>Permission Marketing: Turning Strangers Into Friends, and Friends into Customers and Unleashing the Ideavirus —</i> Seth Godin</li>
	<li><i>Don’t Think of an Elephant! —</i> George Lakoff</li>
	<li><i>Sway: The Irresistible Pull of Irrational Behavior —</i> Ori Brafman</li>
</ul>
<h3 class="left20">Sales</h3>
<p class="noind"><i>Predictable Revenue</i> is one of those short, smart, tactical books that you need to read if you have a direct sales force. Thomas Freese is the master of consultative selling. Both his books offer a great start in understanding how a pro sells. Jeff Thull’s <i>Mastering the Complex</i> Sale has a lot of elements of Customer Discovery and Validation, but skip the first 50 pages. Many of the ideas of Customer Validation are based on the principles articulated by Bosworth, Heiman and Rackham. Bosworth’s <i>Solution Selling</i> and its successor, <i>The New Solution Selling</i> are must-reads for any executive launching a new product. Their articulation of the hierarchy of buyers’ needs as well their descriptions of how to get customers to articulate their needs, makes this a “must-read,” particularly those selling to businesses. Yet in his new book, <i>What Great Salespeople Do,</i> he says: Ignore those books; follow this advice. Heiman’s books are a bit more tactical and are part of a comprehensive sales training program from his company, Miller-Heiman. If you are in sales or have a sales background you can skip these. But if you aren’t they are worth reading for the basic “blocking and tackling” advice. The only bad news is that <a id="page271"/>Heiman writes like a loud salesman - but the advice is sound. Rackham’s <i>Spin Selling</i> is another series of books about major account, large-ticket item sales, with again the emphasis on selling the solution, not features. <i>Let’s Get Real</i> is of the Sandler School of selling (another school of business-to-business sales methodology.) Jill Konrath has great strategies and insights for large sales. <i>Baseline Selling</i> uses baseball metaphors but it’s an effective explanation of how to do consultative selling. I sure could have used the <i>Complete Idiots Guide to Cold Calling</i> when it was just me and the telephone. The <i>Strategy and Tactics of Pricing</i> provides a great framework for thinking about, “how much should I charge for this?”</p>
<ul class="disc">
	<li><i>Predictable Revenue</i> - Aaron Ross and MaryLou Tyler</li>
	<li><i>Secrets of Question Based Selling: How the Most Powerful Tool in Business Can Double Your Sales Results and It Only Takes 1% to Have a Competitive Edge in Sales</i> - Thomas Freese</li>
	<li><i>Mastering the Complex Sale</i> - Jeff Thull</li>
	<li><i>What Great Salespeople Do</i> - Michael Bosworth</li>
	<li><i>Solution Selling: Creating Buyers in Difficult Selling Markets</i> - Michael T. Bosworth</li>
	<li><i>The New Solution Selling: The Revolutionary Process That is Changing the Way People Sell, The New Conceptual Selling: The Most Effective and Proven Method for Face-To-Face Sales Planning</i> and <i>The New Strategic Selling: The Unique Sales System Proven Successful by the World’s Best Companies</i> - Stephen E. Heiman, et. al.</li>
	<li><i>Spin Selling</i> and <i>The Spin Selling Fieldbook</i> - Neil Rackham</li>
	<li><i>Let’s Get Real or Let’s Not Play</i> - Mahan Khalsa</li>
	<li><i>Snap Selling - Speed Up Sales and Win More Business and Selling to Big Companies</i> - Jill Konrath</li>
	<li>Sandler Selling System - <a href="http://www.sandler.com">www.sandler.com</a></li>
	<li>Miller Heiman Sales Process Consulting &amp; Training - <a href="http://www.millerheiman.com">www.millerheiman.com</a></li>
	<li><i>Baseline Selling: How to Become A Sales Superstar</i> - Dave Kurlan</li>
	<li><i>The Complete Idiot’s Guide to Cold Calling</i> - Keith Rosen</li>
	<li><i>The Strategy and Tactics of Pricing</i> - by Nagle, Hogan &amp; Zale</li>
</ul>
<h3 class="left20" id="page272">Startup Law and Finance</h3>
<p class="noind">If you don’t pay attention to the law from the day you start your company it can kill you. But most books (and lawyers) speak in their own arcane language. David Weekly’s <i>An Introduction to Stock and Options</i> should be your first read (unfortunately it’s Kindle only.) <i>The Entrepreneur’s Guide to Business Law</i> is the one book you ought to have on your shelf. While not written explicitly for Silicon Valley startups, it demystifies the most common areas you need to know. <i>Term Sheets &amp; Valuations</i> is a great read if you’re faced with a term sheet and staring at words like “liquidation preferences and conversion rights” and don’t have a clue what they mean. Read this and you can act like you almost understand what you are giving away.</p>
<ul class="disc">
	<li><i>An Introduction to Stock and Options</i> - David Weekly</li>
	<li><i>The Entrepreneur’s Guide to Business Law</i> - by Constance Bagley and Craig Douchy</li>
	<li><i>Term Sheets &amp; Valuations - An Inside Look at the Intricacies of Venture Capital</i> - Alex Wilmerding; Aspatore Books Staff, Aspatore.com</li>
</ul>
<h3 class="left20">Silicon Valley/Regional Clusters</h3>
<p class="noind">Brad Feld’s <i>Startup Communities</i> posits a big idea: Startup communities are driven by entrepreneurs who are the leaders and everyone else is a feeder. It’s essential reading if you’re trying to build your own cluster. Jessica Livingston’s <i>Founders At Work</i> provides the best case studies/vignettes without a PR rewrite of how founders really start companies. An <i>Engineer’s Guide to Silicon Valley Startups</i> is a quirky book that perfectly matches Silicon Valley culture. If you’re an engineer in the Valley or coming out, this is a useful read. It describes what types of startups there are, how to get a job at one, negotiate your salary, stock options, etc. <i>Geek Silicon Valley</i> is part history and part travel guide. Also useful.</p>
<ul class="disc">
	<li><i>Startup Communities</i> - Brad Feld</li>
	<li><i>Founders at Work</i> - Jessica Livingston</li>
	<li><i>Geek Silicon Valley: The Inside Guide to Palo Alto, Stanford, et al.</i> - Ashlee Vance</li>
	<li><i>The Visitor’s Guide to Silicon Valley</i> - <a href="http://www.steveblank.com">www.steveblank.com</a></li>
	<li><i>An Engineer’s Guide to Silicon Valley Startups</i> - Piaw Na</li>
</ul>
<h3 class="left20" id="page273">Venture Capital</h3>
<p class="noind">If you buy one book to understand how VCs and fund-raising work, <i>Venture Deals</i> is the one. Wish I had it when I did startups. Same for <i>Mastering the VC Game.</i> If you read two books about how to deal with VCs, start here. The rest of the books are personal stories. Bill Draper’s book is both history and advice from a VC pioneer. If you have never experienced a startup firsthand, Jerry Kaplan’s book, <i>Startup,</i> and Michael Wolff’s book, <i>Burn Rate,</i> are good reads of a founder’s adventure with the venture capitalists. <i>Eboys</i> is the story of Benchmark Capital during the Internet Bubble. Ferguson’s book is a great read for the first-time entrepreneur. His personality and views of the Venture Capitalists and “suits” offer a Rorschach ink blot test for the reader.</p>
<ul class="disc">
	<li><i>Venture Deals: Be Smarter than your Lawyer and Venture Capitalist</i> - by Brad Feld and Jason Mendelson</li>
	<li><i>Mastering the VC Game</i> - Jeffrey Bussgang</li>
	<li><i>The Startup Game: Inside the Partnership between Venture Capitalists and Entrepreneurs</i> - William H. Draper</li>
	<li><i>Burn Rate: How I Survived the Gold Rush Years on the Internet</i> - Michael Wolff</li>
	<li><i>Startup: A Silicon Valley Adventure</i> - Jerry Kaplan</li>
	<li><i>Eboys: The First Inside Account of Venture Capitalists at Work</i> - Randall E. Stross</li>
	<li><i>High Stakes, No Prisoners: A Winner’s Tale of Greed and Glory in the Internet Wars</i> - Charles H. Ferguson</li>
	<li><i>Pitching Hacks: The Book from Venture Hacks</i></li>
</ul>
<h4 class="left20"><i>Venture Capital History</i></h4>
<p class="noind">These books tell the story of the formation of the Venture Capital Industry.</p>
<ul class="disc">
	<li><i>Creative Capital: Georges Doriot and the Birth of Venture Capital</i> - Spencer E. Ante</li>
	<li><i>Done Deals: Venture Capitalists Tell Their Stories</i> - Udayan Gupta</li>
	<li><i>Semiconductor Timeline to 1976</i> - Semi and Don C. Hoefler</li>
	<li><i>The Startup Game</i> - William Draper III</li>
</ul>
<h3 class="left20">Startup Nuts &amp; Bolts</h3>
<p class="noind">Nesheim’s book, <i>High Tech Start Up,</i> is the gold standard of the nuts and bolts of all the financing stages from venture capital to IPOs. If you promise to ignore the marketing advice he gives you, Baird’s book, <i>Engineering Your Startup,</i> is the Cliff’s Notes version<a id="page274"/> in explaining the basics of financing, valuation, stock options, etc. Gordon Bells’ book <i>High-Tech Ventures</i> is incomprehensible on the first, second or third reads. Yet it is simply the best “operating manual” for startups that has been written. (The only glaring flaw is Bell’s assumption that a market exists for the product and that marketing’s job is data sheets and trade shows.) Read it in doses for insight and revelation, and make notes (think of reading the Bible) rather than reading it straight through.</p>
<ul class="disc">
	<li><i>High Tech Start Up: The Complete Handbook for Creating Successful New High Tech Companies —</i> John L. Nesheim</li>
	<li><i>Engineering Your Start-Up: A Guide for the High-Tech Entrepreneur —</i> Michael L. Baird</li>
	<li><i>High-Tech Ventures: The Guide for Entrepreneurial Success —</i> Gordon Bell</li>
</ul>
<h3 class="left20">Startup Textbooks</h3>
<p class="noind">If you take an entrepreneurship class in a business school or university you’ll probably encounter one of these textbooks. The reason you don’t see them on the desks of working entrepreneurs is that at $100-$150+ they’re all priced for a captive student audience. (Some have paperback versions for $50-$85.) The other uncomfortable fact is that most startups in Silicon Valley ignore these textbooks once they leave school. In the real world, startups are now built using the business model/customer development/ agile engineering stack. Not one of these textbooks teach that.</p>
<p class="ind">Of all the entrepreneurship texts, <i>Technology Ventures</i> is “the gold standard.” Jeff Timmons’ <i>New Venture Creation</i> has too much great stuff in it to ignore. At first read, it is simply overwhelming but tackle it a bit a time and use it to test your business plan for completeness. <i>Business Plans that Work</i> summarizes the relevant part of Timmons’ <i>New Venture Creation</i> book and teaches how to write a document (the business plan) that no one ever reads. However, both books are worth having if you’re in a large company and thinking about introducing follow-on products.</p>
<ul class="disc">
	<li><i>Technology Ventures —</i> Tom Byers, Richard Dorf, Andrew Nelson</li>
	<li><i>New Venture Creation Entrepreneurship for the 21st Century and Business Plans That Work —</i> Jeffry A. Timmons</li>
	<li><i>Entrepreneurship: Strategy and Resources —</i> Marc J. Dollinger</li>
	<li><i>Launching New Ventures: An Entrepreneurial Approach —</i> Kathleen R. Allen</li>
	<li><i>Entrepreneurship —</i> Robert Hisrich, Michael Peters, Dean Shepherd</li>
	<li><i>Entrepreneurship —</i> William D. Bygrave, Andrew Zacharakis</li>
	<li><a id="page275"/><i>Entrepreneurship: An Innovator’s Guide to Startups and Corporate Ventures</i> - Marc H. Meyer, Frederick G. Crane</li>
	<li><i>Entrepreneurship: Successfully Launching New Ventures</i> - Bruce R. Barringer</li>
	<li><i>Entrepreneurial Small Business</i> - Jerome Katz</li>
	<li><i>Entrepreneurship: In a European Perspective</i> - C.K. Volkmann, K.O. Tokarski and M. Granhagen</li>
	<li><i>Patterns of Entrepreneurship Management</i> - Jack M. Kaplan, Anthony Warren</li>
	<li><i>Technology Entrepreneurship: Creating, Capturing and Protecting Value</i> - Thomas N. Duening, Robert A. Hisrich, Michael A. Lechter</li>
	<li><i>Nurturing Science-based Ventures: An International Case Perspective</i> - Ralf W. Seifert, Benoît F. Leleux, Chris L. Tucci</li>
	<li><i>Venture Capital and Private Equity: A Casebook</i> - Josh Lerner, Felda Hardymon, Ann Leamon</li>
	<li><i>Biodesign: The Process of Innovating Medical Technologies</i> - Zenios, Makower, Yock, Brinton, Kumar, Denend, Krummel</li>
</ul>
<h3 class="left20">Manufacturing</h3>
<p class="noind">I’ve yet to meet a manufacturing person who does not reference <i>The Goal</i> when talking about lean manufacturing principles first. It’s a book inside a novel—so it humanizes the manufacturing experience. <i>Lean Thinking</i> is the best overall summary of the lean manufacturing genre. <i>Toyota Production System</i> is the father of all lean manufacturing— its simple tone is refreshing.</p>
<ul class="disc">
	<li><i>The Goal</i> - Eliyahu Goldratt</li>
	<li><i>Lean Thinking</i> - James Womack</li>
	<li><i>Toyota Production System: Beyond Large-Scale Production</i> - Taiicho Ohno</li>
	<li><i>The Toyota Way</i> - Jeffrey Liker</li>
</ul>
<h3 class="left20">Presentation and Product Design</h3>
<p class="noind">Nancy Duarte’s two books, <i>Slide:ology</i> and <i>Resonate,</i> are about presentation design. These are the two books I refer entrepreneurs to who want to build a killer customer presentation. The advice may not work for all audiences but it’s a great place to start. Cooper’s book, <i>The Inmates are Running the Asylum,</i> is about product design. It had the same impact on me as Moore’s <i>Crossing the Chasm</i> - “why of course, that’s what’s wrong.” It’s important and articulate.</p>
<ul class="disc">
	<li><a id="page276"/><i>Slide:ology</i> and <i>Resonate</i> - Nancy Duarte</li>
	<li><i>The Inmates Are Running the Asylum: Why High Tech Products Drive Us Crazy and How To Restore The Sanity</i> - Alan Cooper</li>
</ul>
<h3 class="left20">Culture/Human Resources</h3>
<p class="noind"><i>What I Wish I Knew When I Was 20</i> and <i>InGenious</i> are the books I give all young entrepreneurs. If you are in a large company and wondering why your company isn’t going anywhere, your answers might be found in <i>Good to Great</i>. Written by Jim Collins, the same author who wrote <i>Built to Last,</i> both are books that “you should be so lucky” to read. What differentiates good companies versus great? How do you institutionalize core values into a company that enable it to create value when the current management is long gone? When I first read these, I thought they were only for companies that were lucky enough to get big. Upon reflection, these books were the inspiration for the “Mission-Oriented Culture.” Read them together.</p>
<p class="ind">Ironically, the best HR stuff for anyone in a startup to read is not a book. It is the work James Baron at Stanford has done. Download his slides on the Stanford Project on Emerging Companies. Baron’s book, <i>Strategic Human Resources</i> - is a classic HR textbook. Finally, if you are working at a startup and wondering why the founder is nuts, <i>The Founder Factor</i> helps explain a few things.</p>
<p class="ind">I’m not sure how to characterize <i>The Checklist Manifesto</i> so I stuck it here. It’s a quick read with some insights that match why Business Model strategy needs to be translated into Customer Development checklists.</p>
<ul class="disc">
	<li><i>What I Wish I Knew When I Was 20</i> and <i>InGenious</i> - Tina Seelig</li>
	<li><i>Good To Great</i> and <i>Built to Last</i> - James C. Collins, Jerry I. Porras</li>
	<li><i>The Human Equation: Building Profits by Putting People First</i> - Jeffrey Pfeffer</li>
	<li><i>Strategic Human Resources: Frameworks for General Managers</i> - James N. Baron, David Kreps</li>
	<li><i>The Founder Factor</i> - Nancy Truitt Pierce</li>
	<li><i>The No Asshole Rule, Weird Ideas that Work</i> and <i>Good Boss, Bad Boss</i> - Robert I. Sutton</li>
	<li><i>Hard Facts</i> and <i>The Knowing-Doing Gap</i> - Robert I. Sutton and Jeffrey Pfeffer</li>
	<li><i>Competing on the Edge</i> - Shona L. Brown and Kathleen M. Eisenhardt</li>
	<li><i>Confessions of a Serial Entrepreneur</i> - Stuart Skorman</li>
	<li><i>The Checklist Manifesto</i> - Atul Gawande</li>
</ul>
<h3 class="left20" id="page277">Business History</h3>
<p class="noind">Alfred Sloan’s <i>My Years with General Motors</i> is a great read, but not for the traditional reasons. Read it from the point of view of an entrepreneur (Durant) who’s built a great company by gut and instinct, got it to $200M and is replaced by the board. Then watches as a world-class bureaucrat grows into one of the largest and best run companies in the world. Make sure you read it in conjunction with <i>Sloan Rules</i> and <i>A Ghost’s Memoir</i> If you’re an entrepreneur, the one founder you probably never heard of but should is William Durant. Read Madsen’s biography. <i>The Nudist on the Late Shift</i> is a book you send to someone who lives outside of Silicon Valley and wants to know what life is like in a startup. If you want to understand how the modern corporation formed Chandlers’ <i>Strategy and Structure</i> is the “Ur text.”</p>
<ul class="disc">
	<li><i>My Years with General Motors</i> - Alfred Sloan</li>
	<li><i>Not All Those Who Wander Are Lost</i> - Steve Blank</li>
	<li><i>Sloan Rules: Alfred P. Sloan and the Triumph of General Motors</i> - David R. Farber</li>
	<li><i>A Ghost’s Memoir: The Making of Alfred P. Sloan’s My Years with General Motors</i> - John McDonal</li>
	<li><i>The Deal Maker: How William C. Durant Made General Motors</i> - Axel Madsen</li>
	<li><i>Billy, Alfred and General Motors: The Story of Two Unique Men</i> - William Pelfrey</li>
	<li><i>The Nudist on the Late Shift</i> - Po Bronson</li>
	<li><i>The Facebook Effect: The Inside Story of the Company that is Connecting the World</i> - David Kirkpatrick</li>
	<li><i>Strategy and Structure: Chapters in the History of the American Industrial Enterprise</i> - Alfred Chandler</li>
</ul>
<h3 class="left20">Silicon Valley - Books</h3>
<h4 class="left20"><i>Terman/Shockley/Fairchild/Intel/National</i></h4>
<ul class="disc">
	<li><i>Fred Terman at Stanford</i> - Stewart Gilmore</li>
	<li><i>IEEE Oral History</i> - Fred Terman Associates</li>
	<li><i>Broken Genius: The Rise and Fall of William Shockley</i> - Joel Shurkin</li>
	<li><i>Makers of the Microchip: A Documentary History of Fairchild Semiconductor</i> - Christophe Lecuyer and David Brock</li>
	<li><i>The Man Behind the Microchip: Robert Noyce</i> - Leslie Berlin</li>
	<li><i>Spinoff: A Personal History of the Industry That Changed The World</i> - Charles Sporck</li>
</ul>
<h4 class="left20" id="page278"><i>Silicon Valley History</i></h4>
<ul class="disc">
	<li><i>Electronics in the West: The First Fifty Years</i> - Jane Morgan</li>
	<li><i>The Origins of the Electronics Industry on the Pacific Coast</i> - A.L. Norberg</li>
	<li><i>Revolution in Miniature: The History and Impact of Semiconductor Electronics</i> - Ernest Braun</li>
	<li><i>Creating the Cold War University: The Transformation of Stanford</i> - Rebecca S. Lowen</li>
	<li><i>The Closed World: Computers and the Politics of Discourse in Cold War America</i> - Paul Edwards</li>
	<li><i>Understanding Silicon Valley</i> - Martin Kenney</li>
	<li><i>The Man Who Invented the Computer: The Biography of John Atanasoff, Digital Pioneer</i> - Jane Smiley</li>
	<li><i>How Silicon Valley Came to Be</i> - Timothy Sturgeon</li>
	<li><i>The Inventor and the Pilot: Russell and Sigurd Varian</i> - Dorothy Varian</li>
	<li><i>The Tube Guys</i> - Norman Pond</li>
	<li><i>The Cold War and American Science: The Military-Industrial-Academic Complex at MIT and Stanford</i> - Stuart W. Leslie</li>
	<li><i>Making Silicon Valley: Innovation &amp; the Growth of High Tech</i> - Charles Lecuyer</li>
	<li><i>Dealers of Lightning: Xerox PARC and the Dawn of the Computer Age - Michael Hilzick</i></li>
	<li><i>Regional Advantage: Culture and Competition in Silicon Valley and Route 128</i> - AnnaLee Saxenian</li>
	<li><i>The New Argonauts: Regional Advantage in a Global Economy</i> - AnnaLee Saxenian</li>
	<li><i>Bill and Dave: How Hewlett and Packard Built the World’s Greatest Company</i> - Michael Malone</li>
</ul>
<h3 class="left20">Books/Articles on the Entrepreneurial University</h3>
<p class="noind">My friend, Stephen Spinelli, President of Philadelphia University, offered this great reading list on the activity of the university in tech transfer/collaborations with business, community and government. The list also covers the activity/behavior/leadership of the university president.</p>
<ul class="disc">
	<li><i>Engines of Innovation: The Entrepreneurial University in the Twenty-First Century</i> - Holden Thorp and Buck Goldstein</li>
	<li><i>A University for the 21st Century</i> - Duderstadt, J. J.</li>
	<li><a id="page279"/><i>Creating the Entrepreneurial University: The Case of MIT</i> - O’Shea, R., Allen, T. and Morse, K</li>
	<li><i>How boards can balance demands for entrepreneurship and accountability</i> - Novak, R</li>
	<li><i>Academic Capitalism and the New Economy: Markets, State, and Higher Education</i> - Sheila Slaughter and Gary Rhoades</li>
	<li><i>The New Entrepreneurial University</i> - Trachtenberg, S. J. (1999) - Speech given to the American Association of University Administrators</li>
	<li><i>The Entrepreneurial College President</i> - James L. Fisher and James V. Koch</li>
	<li><i>Leaders in the Crossroads: Success and Failure in the College Presidency</i> - Stephen James Nelson</li>
	<li><i>Creating Entrepreneurial Universities: Organizational Pathways of Transformation</i> - Burton Clark</li>
	<li><i>Collegial Entrepreneurialism in Proactive Universities</i> - Burton Clark</li>
	<li><i>Entrepreneurship and Small College Leadership. New Directions for Higher Education</i> - Robert Peck</li>
</ul>
<p class="ind">All of the following four chapters are in the <i>Journal of the Programme</i> on <i>Institutional Management in Higher Education, Higher Education Management.</i> Vol. 13, No. 2, 2001. Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development.</p>
<ul class="disc">
	<li><i>The Entrepreneurial University: New Foundations for Collegiality, Autonomy and Achievement</i> - Burton Clark</li>
	<li><i>The Emergence of Entrepreneurial Cultures in European Universities</i> - John L. Davies</li>
	<li><i>Promoting Academic Expertise and Authority in an Entrepreneurial Culture</i> - Craig McInnis</li>
	<li><i>Structural Barriers to Innovation in Traditional Universities</i> - Jose-Gines Mora and Enrique Villarreal</li>
</ul>
<p class="noind">Also see Tom Eisenmann’s reading list from his Harvard Lean Startup class.</p>

</body>
</html>