<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>The Four Steps to the Epiphany</title>
<meta content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="Content-Type"/>
<link href="styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:46a28ab3-fee0-447d-bc83-42b53c2716cf" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<h1 class="chapter2" id="intro"><a id="pageviii"/><a id="pageix"/>Introduction</h1>
<div class="blockquote">
	<p class="center20"><i>Think Different</i></p>
	<p class="center">— <i>Steve Jobs</i></p>
</div>
<p class="noind40">When I wrote <i>The Four Steps to the Epiphany</i> over a decade ago, I had no idea I would be <a href="https://archive.harvardbusiness.org/cla/web/pl/product.seam?c=25903&amp;i=25905&amp;cs=f85785d3580feb87e2bce1535af10c2f">starting the Lean Startup revolution</a>. Newly retired, with time to reflect on what I had learned from my 21 years as an entrepreneur, I was struggling to reconcile the reality of my experience with the then-common advice about how to start a company. Investors, VCs and educators all taught entrepreneurs to use the same process used in an established company. To be successful, you wrote a plan, raised money and then executed to the plan, all in a very linear direction.</p>
<p class="ind">My experience suggested that they were all wrong.</p>
<p class="ind">I spent several years working through a <a href="http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JjDRNGGsiEk&amp;list=PLecNohf-_M_eqZHkFJ1LpEgOeB9fpTSfr&amp;index=1">different approach to building startups</a>. This became the Customer Development process and the idea of Market Types. In hindsight, I now realize that while educators and startup investors had adapted tools and processes useful for <i>executing</i> a business model, there were no tools and processes to <i>search</i> for a business model. It seemed obvious to me that <i>searching</i> is what startups actually do, but it was a pretty lonely couple of years convincing others.</p>
<p class="ind">Over time necessity — not investors or educators — drove the adoption of the Customer Development process. The emerging web, mobile and cloud apps, built with small teams already using agile development, needed a much faster process to acquire customer feedback. This new generation of entrepreneurs were rapid early adopters of customer development as it helped them reduce the odds of failing - by getting them out of the building to get early customer feedback — as they built their product incrementally and iteratively.</p>
<p class="ind">About a decade ago, after <i>The Four Steps</i> was published, I began teaching the Customer Development process as a full-semester course at U.C. Berkeley. A student in my first Berkeley class, Eric Ries, became the first practitioner and tireless evangelist of the process at IMVU, iterating and testing the process as I sat on his board. His insight coupled customer development to the emerging agile engineering practice, and together the two methodologies helped founders to rapidly iterate their products, guided by customer feedback.</p>
<p class="ind">A few years later, Alexander Osterwalder’s <a href="http://businessmodelstudios.com/video-2/alexander-osterwalder-with-steve-blank/">business model canvas</a> provided the Customer Development process with a much-needed front end to organize all of a startup’s hypotheses<a id="pagex"/> into a simple framework that serves as a baseline and a scorecard for teams as they move through Customer Development.</p>
<p class="ind">These new ideas have coalesced into what has today become the Lean Startup movement. And hundreds of thousands of books later, the core ideas of <i>The Four Steps</i> have spread from startups to large corporations and the Lean Startup methodology has become the standard for commercializing scientific research in the U.S. It’s taught in most major universities and in thousands of entrepreneurial programs around the world.</p>
<p class="ind">And it all started with this one book.</p>
<p class="ind">Who would’ve thought?</p>
<hr class="topbottom"/>
<p class="ind"><i>This edition of The Four Steps to the Epiphany is substantively the same as the 2003 version. A few typos were corrected and unfinished sentences completed. The “update” to The Four Steps is <a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0984999302/ref=as_li_tf_tl?ie=UTF8&amp;tag=wwwsteveblank-20&amp;linkCode=as2&amp;camp=1789&amp;creative=9325&amp;creativeASIN=0984999302">The Startup Owner’s Manual</a>, published in 2012 with Bob Dorf. While The Four Steps remains the uber text, The Startup Owner’s Manual builds on that work with a step-by-step process for building great companies using the business model canvas and the Customer Development process.</i></p>

</body>
</html>