<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" epub:prefix="index: http://www.index.com/" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>About the Author</title>
<link href="WileyTemplate_v5.5.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:2e862cb2-cad9-442c-8afa-44800015a242" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="backmatter">
<section class="ATA" epub:type="contributors">
<span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_329" role="doc-pagebreak" title="329"/>
<header>
<h1><a id="bibliography"/>About the Author</h1></header>
<section><span id="babout-sec-0001"/>
<p id="babout-para-0001">Before founding the Silicon Valley Product Group to pursue his interests in helping others create successful products through his writing, speaking, advising, and coaching, Marty Cagan served as an executive responsible for defining and building products for some of the most successful companies in the world, including Hewlett‐Packard, Netscape Communications, and eBay.</p>
<p id="babout-para-0002">Marty began his career with a decade as a software engineer at Hewlett‐Packard Laboratories, conducting research on software technology and building several software products for other software developers.</p>
<p id="babout-para-0003">After HP, Marty joined a then‐young Netscape Communications Corporation, where he had the opportunity to participate in the birth of the Internet industry. Marty worked directly for co‐founder Marc Andreessen, where he was vice president for Netscape's platform and tools, and later e‐commerce applications, and worked to help Internet startups and Fortune 500 companies alike understand and use the newly emerging technology.</p>
<p id="babout-para-0004">Marty was most recently senior vice president of product and design for eBay, where he was responsible for defining products and services for the company's global e‐commerce trading site.</p>
<p id="babout-para-0005">During his career, Marty has personally performed and managed most of the roles of a modern software product organization, including engineering, product management, product marketing, user experience design, software testing, engineering management, and general management.</p>
<p id="babout-para-0006">As part of his work<span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_330" role="doc-pagebreak" title="330"/> with SVPG, Marty is an invited speaker at major conferences and top companies across the globe.</p>
<p id="babout-para-0007">Marty is a graduate of the University of California at Santa Cruz with bachelor of arts degrees in computer science and applied economics (1981) and of the Stanford University Executive Institute (1994).</p>
</section>
</section>
</body>
</html>