<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" epub:prefix="index: http://www.index.com/" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>CHAPTER 19 The Delivery Manager Role</title>
<link href="WileyTemplate_v5.5.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:2e862cb2-cad9-442c-8afa-44800015a242" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter">
<span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_91" role="doc-pagebreak" title="91"/>
<header>
<h1><a id="c19"/><span class="chapterNumber">CHAPTER 19</span><br/><span class="chapterTitle">The Delivery Manager Role</span></h1></header>
<section><span id="c19-sec-0001"/>
<p id="c19-para-0002">In growth‐stage and enterprise companies, many product managers complain that they have to spend far too much of their time doing project management activities. As a result, they have almost no time to address their primary product responsibility: ensuring that the engineers have a product worth building.</p>
<p id="c19-para-0003">Delivery managers are a special type of project manager whose mission is all about removing obstacles—also known as <i>impediments</i>—for the team. Sometimes, these obstacles involve other product teams, and sometimes they involve non‐product functions. In a single day, they might track down someone in marketing and press them for a decision or an approval, coordinate with the delivery manager on another team about prioritizing a key dependency, persuade a product designer to create some visual assets for one of the front‐end developers, and deal with a dozen other similar roadblocks.</p>
<p id="c19-para-0004">These delivery managers are typically also the Scrum Masters for the team (if they have that role). They are all about helping the team to get stuff live faster, not by cracking the whip but by removing obstacles that get in the way.</p>
<aside><div class="top hr"><hr/></div>
<section class="feature1">
<p id="c19-para-0001"><i>In growth‐stage and enterprise companies, many product managers complain that they have to spend far too much of their time doing project management activities.</i></p>
<div class="bottom hr"><hr/></div></section></aside>
<p id="c19-para-0005">These people might have the title project manager—or sometimes program manager—but if that's the case, then we need to make sure these people have defined the job like I did here and not in the old program management sense.</p>
<p id="c19-para-0006">If your company<span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_92" role="doc-pagebreak" title="92"/> does not have delivery managers—by whatever title—then this work typically falls to the product manager and the engineering managers. Again, if your organization is small, then this is fine—and there are even advantages. But if your organization is larger—on the order of at least 5 to 10 product teams, then this role becomes increasingly important.</p>
</section>
</section></body>
</html>