<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" epub:prefix="index: http://www.index.com/" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Product Objectives</title>
<link href="WileyTemplate_v5.5.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:2e862cb2-cad9-442c-8afa-44800015a242" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter">
<span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_137" role="doc-pagebreak" title="137"/>
<header>
<h1><a id="c27"/><span class="chapterTitle">Product Objectives</span></h1></header>
<section><span id="c27-sec-0001"/>
<h2 id="head-2-68">Overview</h2>
<p id="c27-para-0009">I was extremely fortunate to have started my career at HP as an engineer during their heyday, when they were known as the industry's most successful and enduring example of consistent innovation and execution.</p>
<p id="c27-para-0010">As part of HP's internal engineering management training program called <i>The HP Way</i>, I was introduced to a business objective–based system known as MBO—<i>management by objectives</i>.</p>
<p id="c27-para-0011">Dave Packard claimed: “No [tool] has contributed more to Hewlett‐Packard's success. [MBO] is the antithesis of management by control.”</p>
<p id="c27-para-0012">The MBO system was refined and improved at several companies over the years, most notably by the legendary Andy Grove at Intel. Today, the primary business objective management system we use is known as the OKR system—<i>objectives and key results</i>.</p>
<p id="c27-para-0013">John Doerr brought the technique from Intel to a very young Google, and a couple decades after Dave Packard attributed much of HP's success to MBO, Larry Page said essentially the same thing about the importance of the OKR process on Google's success.</p>
<p>The concept is straightforward and based on two fundamental principles:</p>
<ol class="decimal" id="c27-list-0001">
<li id="c27-li-0001">The first can easily be summed up with the famous General George Patton quote I mentioned earlier: “Never tell people how to do things. Tell them what to do, and they will surprise you with their ingenuity.”</li>
<li id="c27-li-0002">The second was captured by HP's tagline of that era: “When performance is measured by results.” The idea here is that you can release all the features you want, but if it doesn't solve the underlying business problem, you haven't really solved anything.</li>
</ol>
<p id="c27-para-0015">The first principle is fundamentally about how to empower and motivate people to get them to do their best work, and the second is about how to meaningfully measure progress.</p>
<p id="c27-para-0017">So much has changed in our industry over the years, but these two fundamental management principles are still at the foundation of how the best tech companies and teams operate.</p>
<p id="c27-para-0018">While there are several<span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_138" role="doc-pagebreak" title="138"/> workable systems and tools for managing these business objectives, in this book, I'll focus on the OKR system technique. Most of the major successful tech companies have been using it for several years now. It seems to have hit some sort of tipping point and is now spreading globally.</p>
<aside><div class="top hr"><hr/></div>
<section class="feature1">
<p id="c27-para-0016"><i>The first principle is fundamentally about how to empower and motivate people to get them to do their best work, and the second is about how to meaningfully measure progress.</i></p>
<div class="bottom hr"><hr/></div></section></aside>
<p>While the concept of team objectives might sound straightforward, there are many ways to institutionalize this across product teams and organizations, and it can take a few quarters before the organization finds its groove.</p>
</section>
</section>
</body>
</html>