<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" epub:prefix="index: http://www.index.com/" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Discovery Framing Techniques</title>
<link href="WileyTemplate_v5.5.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:2e862cb2-cad9-442c-8afa-44800015a242" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter">
<span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_175" role="doc-pagebreak" title="175"/>
<header>
<h1><a id="c34"/><span class="chapterTitle">Discovery Framing Techniques</span></h1></header>
<section><span id="c34-sec-0013"/>
<h2 id="head-2-82">Overview</h2>
<p id="c34-para-0018">Much of our product discovery work doesn't require a lot of framing or planning. We need to come up with a solution to a particular problem, and often this is straightforward, and we can proceed directly to delivery work.</p>
<p id="c34-para-0019">But for many efforts, this is decidedly not the case, and some framing and true problem solving becomes critically important. Big projects—and, especially, <i>initiatives</i> (projects spanning multiple teams)—are common examples.</p>
<p id="c34-para-0020">In this section, I consider how we frame our discovery work to ensure alignment and to identify key risks.</p>
<p>There are really two goals here:</p>
<ol class="decimal" id="c34-list-0001">
<li id="c34-li-0001">The first is to ensure the team is all on the same page in terms of clarity of purpose and alignment. In particular, we need to agree on the business objective we're focused on, the specific problem we are intending to solve for our customers, which user or customers you're solving that problem for, and how you will know if you've succeeded. These should align directly to your product team's objectives and key results.</li>
<li id="c34-li-0002">The second purpose is to identify the big risks that will need to be tackled during the discovery work. I find that most teams tend to gravitate toward a particular type of risk that they are most comfortable with.</li>
</ol>
<aside><div class="top hr"><hr/></div>
<section class="feature1">
<p id="c34-para-0022"><i>Ensure the team is all on the same page in terms of clarity of purpose and alignment.</i></p>
<div class="bottom hr"><hr/></div></section></aside>
<p id="c34-para-0023">Two examples I often find are teams that immediately proceed to tackling technology risks—especially performance or scale—and teams that zero in on usability risks. They know this change involves a complex workflow, and they're nervous about that, so they want to dive in right there.</p>
<p id="c34-para-0024">Those are both legitimate risks, but in my experience, they are generally the easier risks to tackle.</p>
<p id="c34-para-0025">We must also consider <i>value</i> risk—do the customers want this particular problem solved and is our proposed solution good enough to get people to switch from what they have now?</p>
<p>And then there's the often‐messy<span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_176" role="doc-pagebreak" title="176"/> business risk, where we have to make sure that the solution we come up with in discovery works for the different parts of our company. Here are some common examples of that:</p><ul id="c34-list-0002">
<li id="c34-li-0003">Financial risk—can we afford this solution?</li>
<li id="c34-li-0004">Business development risk—does this solution work for our partners?</li>
<li id="c34-li-0005">Marketing risk—is this solution consistent with our brand?</li>
<li id="c34-li-0006">Sales risk—is this solution something our sales staff is equipped to sell?</li>
<li id="c34-li-0007">Legal risk—is this something we can do from a legal or compliance perspective?</li>
<li id="c34-li-0008">Ethical risk—is this solution something we should do?</li>
</ul>
<p id="c34-para-0027">For many things, we won't have concerns along these dimensions, but, when we do, it's something that we must tackle aggressively.</p>
<p id="c34-para-0028">If the product manager, designer, and tech lead do not feel there's a significant risk in any of these areas, then normally we would just proceed to delivery—fully realizing there's a chance the team will occasionally be proved wrong. This, however, is preferable to the alternative of having the team be extremely conservative and test every assumption.</p>
<p id="c34-para-0029">We like to use our discovery time and validation techniques for those situations in which we know there's a significant risk, or where members of the team disagree.</p>
<p id="c34-para-0030">There are many ways to assess an opportunity. Some companies require significant rigor and analysis, and others just leave it to the product team's judgment.</p>
<p>In this section, I describe<span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_177" role="doc-pagebreak" title="177"/> three of my favorite techniques, each for different‐sized efforts:</p>
<ol class="decimal" id="c34-list-0003">
<li id="c34-li-0009">An <i>opportunity assessment</i> is designed for the vast majority of product work, which ranges from a simple optimization to a feature to a medium‐sized project.</li>
<li id="c34-li-0010">A <i>customer letter</i> is designed for larger projects or initiatives that often have multiple goals and a more complicated desired outcome.</li>
<li id="c34-li-0011">A <i>startup canvas</i> for those times you're creating an entirely new product line or a new business.</li>
</ol>
<p id="c34-para-0032">Note that these techniques are not mutually exclusive. You may find it useful to do both an opportunity assessment and a customer letter, for example.</p>
<aside><div class="top hr"><hr/></div>
<section class="feature3"><span id="c34-fea-0001"/>
<h2 id="head-2-83">Problems versus Solutions</h2>
<section><span id="c34-sec-0014"/>
<p id="c34-para-0033">There is an underlying theme you'll see in all framing techniques, and the reason is that it's just human nature for people to think and talk in terms of <i>solutions</i> rather than the underlying <i>problems</i>. This applies especially to users and customers but also applies to stakeholders in our business, other company execs, and if we're honest with ourselves, it very often applies to us as well.</p>
<aside><div class="top hr"><hr/></div>
<section class="feature1">
<p id="c34-para-0037"><i>More often than not, our initial solutions don't solve the problem—at least not in a way that can power a successful business.</i></p>
<div class="bottom hr"><hr/></div></section></aside>
<p id="c34-para-0034">This problem famously applies to startup founders. Founders will often stew on a potential solution for month, if not years, before they get the funding and the nerve to pursue it.</p>
<p id="c34-para-0035">But one of the most important<span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_178" role="doc-pagebreak" title="178"/> lessons in our industry is to <i>fall in love with the problem, not the solution</i>.</p>
<p id="c34-para-0036">Why is this so important? Because, more often than not, our initial solutions don't solve the problem—at least not in a way that can power a successful business. It usually takes trying out several different approaches to a solution before we find one that solves the underlying problem.</p>
<p id="c34-para-0038">This is another reason why typical product roadmaps are so problematic. They're lists of features and projects where each feature or project is a possible solution. Somebody believes that feature will solve the problem or it wouldn't be on the roadmap, but it's all too possible they are wrong. It's not their fault—there's just no way to know at the stage it's put on the roadmap.</p>
<p id="c34-para-0039">However, there very likely is a legitimate problem behind that potential solution, and it's our job in the product organization to tease out the underlying problem and ensure that whatever solution we deliver solves that underlying problem.</p>
<p id="c34-para-0040">A small amount of time up front framing the problem to be solved—and communicating this framing—can make a dramatic difference in the results.</p>
</section>
<div class="bottom hr"><hr/></div></section></aside></section>
</section>
</body>
</html>