<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" epub:prefix="index: http://www.index.com/" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Discovery Ideation Techniques</title>
<link href="WileyTemplate_v5.5.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:2e862cb2-cad9-442c-8afa-44800015a242" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter">
<span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_208" role="doc-pagebreak" title="208"/>
<header>
<h1><a id="c40"/><span class="chapterTitle">Discovery Ideation Techniques</span></h1></header>
<section><span id="c40-sec-0003"/>
<h2 id="head-2-99">Overview</h2>
<p id="c40-para-0020">There are, of course, any number of techniques for generating product ideas. I really haven't met many ideation techniques I haven't liked. But to me, the more relevant question is, “How do we generate the types of ideas that are likely to truly help us solve the hard business problems that our leaders have asked us to focus on right now?”</p>
<p id="c40-para-0022">Remarkably, in the vast majority of companies (not the ones that are good at product), the actual product teams don't do much ideation themselves. This is because what's really going on is that the ideas are already handed to the product teams in the form of prioritized features on product roadmaps, where most of the items on those roadmaps are coming either from requests from big customers (or prospective customers), or from company stakeholders or execs. Unfortunately, these are rarely the quality of ideas we're looking for.</p>
<p id="c40-para-0023">In general, if the product team is given actual business problems to solve rather than solutions, and the product team does their job and interacts directly and frequently with actual users and customers, then getting a sufficient quantity and quality of product ideas is not really a problem.</p>
<aside><div class="top hr"><hr/></div>
<section class="feature1">
<p id="c40-para-0021"><i>How do we generate the types of ideas that are likely to truly help us solve the hard business problems that our leaders have asked us to focus on right now?</i></p>
<div class="bottom hr"><hr/></div></section></aside>
<p id="c40-para-0024">I have some favorite techniques that consistently deliver to the team very promising and very relevant product ideas.</p>
<p id="c40-para-0025">One important caveat, though. If you use these techniques, I am fairly certain you will get very excited by many of the ideas you discover. But that doesn't mean you should just go ahead and build them. In most cases, we<span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_209" role="doc-pagebreak" title="209"/> will still need to test them to ensure they are valuable and usable for our customers, are feasible for our engineers, and are viable for our<span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_210" role="doc-pagebreak" title="210"/> business.</p>
</section>
</section></body>
</html>