<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" epub:prefix="index: http://www.index.com/" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>CHAPTER 42 Concierge Test Technique</title>
<link href="WileyTemplate_v5.5.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:2e862cb2-cad9-442c-8afa-44800015a242" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter">
<span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_215" role="doc-pagebreak" title="215"/>
<header>
<h1><a id="c42"/><span class="chapterNumber">CHAPTER 42</span><br/><span class="chapterTitle">Concierge Test Technique</span></h1></header>
<section><span id="c42-sec-0001"/>
<p id="c42-para-0001">A concierge test is one of my favorite techniques for quickly generating high‐quality product ideas and, at the same time, working on developing the customer understanding and empathy that's so important for motivating the team and delivering strong solutions.</p>
<p id="c42-para-0002">A <i>concierge test</i> is a relatively new name to describe an old but effective technique. The idea is that we do the customer's job for them—manually and personally. Just as if you went to a hotel concierge and asked if he could find you some theater tickets to a popular show. You don't really know the details of what that concierge is doing for you to get those tickets, but you do know that he is doing something.</p>
<p id="c42-para-0003">With this technique, <i>you</i> become the concierge. You do what the user or customer needs done for them. You may have to ask them to train you first, but you are in their shoes doing the tasks they would do.</p>
<aside><div class="top hr"><hr/></div>
<section class="feature1">
<p id="c42-para-0005"><i>A concierge test requires going out to the actual users and customers and asking them to show you how they work so that you can learn how to do their job, and so that you can work on providing them a much better solution.</i></p>
<div class="bottom hr"><hr/></div></section></aside>
<p id="c42-para-0004">This is similar, but not the same, as spending some time with your customer service or customer success staff. That is also valuable, and often a good source of product ideas as well, but that is helping customers once they call with a problem.</p>
<p id="c42-para-0006">A concierge test requires going out to the actual users and customers and asking them to show you how they work so that<span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_216" role="doc-pagebreak" title="216"/> you can learn how to do their job, and so that you can work on providing them a much better solution.</p>
<p id="c42-para-0007">If you are building a <i>customer‐enabling</i> product, the users may be employees of your company, but the technique is the same—you go to these colleagues and ask them to teach you how they do their job.</p>
<p id="c42-para-0008">Like the principle of shared learning, it is most valuable if the product manager, the product designer, and one of the engineers does the concierge test.</p>
</section>
</section></body>
</html>