<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" epub:prefix="index: http://www.index.com/" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Discovery Prototyping Techniques</title>
<link href="WileyTemplate_v5.5.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:2e862cb2-cad9-442c-8afa-44800015a242" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter">
<span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_223" role="doc-pagebreak" title="223"/>
<header>
<h1><a id="c44"/><span class="chapterTitle">Discovery Prototyping Techniques</span></h1></header>
<section><span id="c44-sec-0003"/>
<h2 id="head-2-101">Overview</h2>
<p id="c44-para-0008">Prototypes of various forms have been around for as long as we've been applying technology to solve problems. Per the famous Fred Brooks quote, “Plan to throw one away; you will, anyhow.”</p>
<aside><div class="top hr"><hr/></div>
<section class="feature1">
<p id="c44-para-0009"><i>“Plan to throw one away; you will, anyhow.”</i></p>
<div class="bottom hr"><hr/></div></section></aside>
<p id="c44-para-0010">While Fred's quote is as relevant today as when it was first published (in 1975!), many things have changed, not the least of which is that the tools and techniques we have for developing prototypes and testing them have progressed dramatically.</p>
<p id="c44-para-0011">That said, I continue to find teams, and even people I would consider thought leaders, that have a very narrow interpretation of what is meant by the term <i>prototype</i>.</p>
<p id="c44-para-0012">When I press people, what I typically find is that they associate the term prototype with the type that they were first exposed to. If the first one you saw was used to test for feasibility, that's what you think of. If the first one you saw was used for usability testing, that's what you think of.</p>
<p id="c44-para-0013">But there are in fact many very different forms of prototypes, each with different characteristics and each suited to testing different things. And, yes, some people get themselves into trouble trying to use the wrong type of prototype for the job at hand.</p>
<p id="c44-para-0014">In this overview, I highlight the major classes of prototypes, and in the chapters that follow, I go into depth on each of them.</p>
</section>
<section><span id="c44-sec-0004"/>
<h2 id="head-2-102">Feasibility Prototypes</h2>
<p id="c44-para-0015">These are written by engineers to address technical feasibility risks during product discovery—before we decide whether something is feasible. Sometimes, the engineers are trying out a new technology. Sometimes it's a new algorithm. Often it is about assessing performance. The idea is for the developer to write just enough code to be able to address the feasibility risk.</p>
</section>
<section><span id="c44-sec-0005"/>
<h2 id="head-2-103">User Prototypes</h2>
<p id="c44-para-0016">User prototypes are simulations. There is a wide spectrum of user prototypes—from those intentionally designed to look like wireframes sketched out on paper (referred to<span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_224" role="doc-pagebreak" title="224"/> as <i>low‐fidelity user prototypes</i>) all the way up to those that look and feel like the real thing (referred to as <i>high‐fidelity user prototypes</i>), where it can be difficult to tell it's just a simulation.</p>
</section>
<section><span id="c44-sec-0006"/>
<h2 id="head-2-104">Live‐Data Prototypes</h2>
<p id="c44-para-0017">Live‐data prototypes are a little more complicated to explain, but they are a critically important tool for several situations. The main purpose of a <i>live‐data prototype</i> is to collect actual data so we can prove something, or at least gather some evidence—normally to find out whether an idea (a feature, a design approach, a workflow) really works. This typically means two things. First, we need the prototype to access our live data sources, and second, we need to be able to send live traffic—in enough quantity to get some useful data—to the prototype.</p>
<p id="c44-para-0018">The key is that we don't want to have to build, test, and deploy a commercially viable product to do this. That would take far too long, cost far too much, and very likely yield huge waste. A live‐data prototype costs a small fraction of what it would cost to build a commercially viable product, which is what makes this such a powerful tool.</p>
</section>
<section><span id="c44-sec-0007"/>
<h2 id="head-2-105">Hybrid Prototypes</h2>
<p id="c44-para-0019">There are also many hybrids, which combine aspects of the other types. For example, when working on search and recommendations in which we're focusing on relevance, we may need to have the prototype access live‐data sources, but we don't need to be able to send live traffic. In this case, we're not trying to prove anything, but we can learn a great deal by observing and discussing the results with the users.</p>
<p id="c44-para-0020">Remember that product discovery is all about coming up with the fastest, cheapest way to test out our ideas. So, depending on your particular idea and situation, you'll want to pick the flavor of prototype that best meets your needs.</p>
<p id="c44-para-0021">While we all might have<span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_225" role="doc-pagebreak" title="225"/> our favorites, if you are competing against good product teams, you are<span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_226" role="doc-pagebreak" title="226"/> going to need to be skilled at each of these.</p>
</section>
</section></body>
</html>