<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" epub:prefix="index: http://www.index.com/" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>CHAPTER 48 Live‐Data Prototype Technique</title>
<link href="WileyTemplate_v5.5.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:2e862cb2-cad9-442c-8afa-44800015a242" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter">
<span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_235" role="doc-pagebreak" title="235"/>
<header>
<h1><a id="c48"/><span class="chapterNumber">CHAPTER 48</span><br/><span class="chapterTitle">Live‐Data Prototype Technique</span></h1></header>
<section><span id="c48-sec-0001"/>
<p id="c48-para-0001">Sometimes, in order to address a major risk identified in discovery, we need to be able to collect some actual usage data. But we need to collect this evidence while in discovery, well before taking the time and expense of building an actual scalable and shippable product.</p>
<p id="c48-para-0002">Some of my favorite examples of this are when applying game dynamics, search result relevance, many social features, and product funnel work.</p>
<p id="c48-para-0003">This is the purpose of a live‐data prototype.</p>
<p id="c48-para-0004">A <i>live‐data prototype</i> is a very limited implementation. It typically has none of the productization that's normally required, such as the full set of use cases, automated tests, full analytics instrumentation, internationalization and localization, performance and scalability, SEO work, and so forth.</p>
<p>The live‐data prototype is substantially smaller than the eventual product, and the bar is dramatically lower in terms of quality, performance, and functionality. It needs to run well enough to collect data for some very specific use cases, and that's about it.</p>
<aside><div class="top hr"><hr/></div>
<section class="feature1">
<p id="c48-para-0010"><i>The key is to be able to send some limited amount of traffic, and to collect analytics on how this live‐data prototype is being used.</i></p>
<div class="bottom hr"><hr/></div></section></aside>
<p id="c48-para-0006">When creating a live‐data prototype, our engineers don't handle all the use cases. They don't address internationalization and localization work, they don't tackle performance or scalability, they don't create the automated tests, and they only include instrumentation for the specific use cases we're testing.</p>
<p>A live‐data prototype is just a small fraction of the productization effort (in my experience, somewhere between 5 and 10 percent of the eventual delivery productization work), but you get big value from it. There are two big limitations you do have to keep in mind, however:</p><ul id="c48-list-0001">
<li id="c48-li-0001">First, this is code, so engineers<span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_236" role="doc-pagebreak" title="236"/> must create the live‐data prototype, not your designers.</li>
<li id="c48-li-0002">Second, this is not a commercially shippable product, it's not ready for primetime, and you can't run a business on it. So, if the live‐data tests go well, and you decide to move forward and productize, you will need to allow your engineers to take the time required to do the necessary delivery work. It is definitely <i>not</i> okay for the product manager to tell the engineers that this is “good enough.” That judgment is not up to the product manager. And the product manager does need to make sure key executives and stakeholders understand the limitations as well.</li>
</ul>
<p id="c48-para-0008">Today, the technology for creating live‐data prototypes is so good that we can often get what we need in just a couple days to a week. And once we have it we can iterate very quickly.</p>
<p id="c48-para-0009">Later, we'll discuss the quantitative‐validation techniques and you'll see the different ways we can utilize this live‐data prototype. But for now, know that the key is to be able to send some limited amount of traffic, and to collect analytics on how this live‐data prototype is being used.</p>
<p id="c48-para-0011">What's important is that actual users<span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_237" role="doc-pagebreak" title="237"/> will use the live‐data prototype for real work, and this will<span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_238" role="doc-pagebreak" title="238"/> generate real data (analytics) that we can compare to our current product—or to our expectations—to see if this new approach performs better.</p>
</section>
</section></body>
</html>