<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" epub:prefix="index: http://www.index.com/" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Discovery Testing Techniques</title>
<link href="WileyTemplate_v5.5.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:2e862cb2-cad9-442c-8afa-44800015a242" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter">
<span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_241" role="doc-pagebreak" title="241"/>
<header>
<h1><a id="c49"/><span class="chapterTitle">Discovery Testing Techniques</span></h1></header>
<section><span id="c49-sec-0003"/>
<h2 id="head-2-106">Overview</h2>
<p id="c49-para-0011">In product discovery, we're essentially trying to quickly separate the good ideas from the bad as we work to try to solve the business problems assigned to us. But what does that really mean?</p>
<p id="c49-para-0012">We think of four types of questions we're trying to answer during discovery:</p>
<ol class="decimal" id="c49-list-0001">
<li id="c49-li-0001">Will the user or customer choose to use or buy this? (Value)</li>
<li id="c49-li-0002">Can the user figure out how to use this? (Usability)</li>
<li id="c49-li-0003">Can we build this? (Feasibility)</li>
<li id="c49-li-0004">Is this solution viable for our business? (Business viability)</li>
</ol>
<p id="c49-para-0013">Remember that for many of the things we work on, most or all of these questions are very straightforward and low risk. Your team is confident. They have been there and done this many times before, and so we will proceed to delivery.</p>
<p id="c49-para-0014">The main activity of discovery is when these answers are not so clear.</p>
<p id="c49-para-0015">There is no prescribed order to answering these questions. However, many teams follow a certain logic.</p>
<p>First, we will usually assess value. This is often the toughest—and most important—question to answer, and if the value isn't there, not much else matters. We likely will need to address usability before the user or customer can even recognize the value. In either case, we usually assess usability and value with the same users and customers at the same time.</p>
<aside><div class="top hr"><hr/></div>
<section class="feature1">
<p id="c49-para-0010"><i>In product discovery, we're essentially trying to quickly separate the good ideas from the bad as we work to try to solve the business problems assigned to us.</i></p>
<div class="bottom hr"><hr/></div></section></aside>
<p id="c49-para-0017">Once we have something that our customers believe is truly valuable, and we have designed it in a way that we believe our users can figure out how to use, then we'll typically review the approach with the engineers to make sure this is doable from their technical feasibility perspective.</p>
<p id="c49-para-0018">If we're also good on feasibility, then<span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_242" role="doc-pagebreak" title="242"/> we'll show it to key parts of the business where there may be concerns (think legal, marketing, sales, CEO, etc.). We'll often address these business risks last because we don't want to stir up the organization unless we're confident it's worthwhile. Also, sometimes the ideas that survive are not so similar to the original ideas that we started with, and those original ideas may have come from a business stakeholder. It's much more effective to be able to show that stakeholder some evidence of what did and didn't work with customers and why and how you ended up where you are.</p>
</section>
</section></body>
</html>