<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" epub:prefix="index: http://www.index.com/" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>CHAPTER 60 Weaning an Organization Off Roadmaps</title>
<link href="WileyTemplate_v5.5.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:2e862cb2-cad9-442c-8afa-44800015a242" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter">
<span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_293" role="doc-pagebreak" title="293"/>
<header>
<h1><a id="c60"/><span class="chapterNumber">CHAPTER 60</span><br/><span class="chapterTitle">Weaning an Organization Off Roadmaps</span></h1></header>
<section><span id="c60-sec-0001"/>
<p id="c60-para-0001">Many product teams want to move off product roadmaps, but their organizations are old school, addicted to the outdated quarterly product roadmap. As a result, they don't see how to transition their organizations forward.</p>
<p id="c60-para-0002">Here's what I advocate in this case: Plan to continue with your existing roadmap process for six to 12 months. However, starting immediately, every time you reference a product roadmap item, or discuss it in a presentation or meeting, be sure to include a reminder of the actual <i>business outcome</i> that feature is intended to help.</p>
<aside><div class="top hr"><hr/></div>
<section class="feature1">
<p id="c60-para-0005"><i>The goal is that over time, the organization moves its focus from specific features launching on specific dates to business results.</i></p>
<div class="bottom hr"><hr/></div></section></aside>
<p id="c60-para-0003">If the feature you're working on is to add PayPal as a payment method, and the reason is to increase conversion, then be sure to always show the current conversion rate and the result you're hoping to achieve. Most important, after the feature goes live, be sure to highlight the impact on that conversion rate.</p>
<p id="c60-para-0004">If the impact was good, celebrate it. If the impact was not what was hoped, then emphasize to everyone that, while you did ship the feature, the result was not successful. Point out specifically what was learned, but explain that you have other ideas for ways to get the desired result.</p>
<p id="c60-para-0006">The goal is that over time (it can take as long as a year), the organization moves its focus from specific features launching on specific dates to business results.</p>
<p>For this to work, it's important to acknowledge the two big reasons why stakeholders especially are so attracted to roadmaps:</p>
<ol class="decimal" id="c60-list-0001">
<li id="c60-li-0001">They want some visibility into what you are working on and assurance that you are working on the most important items.</li>
<li id="c60-li-0002">They want to be able to plan the business and need to know when critical things will happen.</li>
</ol>
<p id="c60-para-0008">The modern alternative to roadmaps discussed here addresses both of these concerns. Teams work<span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_294" role="doc-pagebreak" title="294"/> on the prioritized business objectives determined by the leaders; we share our key results transparently; and we commit to high‐integrity commitments when critical delivery dates are needed.</p>
</section>
</section></body>
</html>