<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" epub:prefix="index: http://www.index.com/" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Inspired</title>
<link href="WileyTemplate_v5.5.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:2e862cb2-cad9-442c-8afa-44800015a242" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="frontmatter">
<section class="frontmatter">
<span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_i" role="doc-pagebreak" title="i"/>
<section><span id="ffirs00-sec-0001"/>
<blockquote class="extract">
<p id="ffirs00-para-0001"><i>“</i>INSPIRED <i>is the authority on how to build a product that customers actually want. It's not about hiring product managers ‐ it's about establishing a culture that puts the user first, and builds the organization and teams around that customer to ensure that you are building the best product possible. From CEOs to APMs, this is required reading.”</i></p>
<p class="right">—Amanda Richardson, Chief Data and Strategy Officer, HotelTonight</p>
</blockquote>
<blockquote class="extract">
<p><i>“We first started working with Marty when ImmobilienScout was entering growth‐stage, and he helped us set the organization up to rapidly scale and grow to become one of the largest and most successful technology startups in Germany. He remained a friend and advisor to the company for many years. His book</i> INSPIRED <i>helped people from all across the company, and the new version is sure to help many more companies.”</i></p>
<p class="right">—Jürgen Böhm, Co‐Founder, Immobilien Scout GmbH</p>
</blockquote>
<blockquote class="extract">
<p><i>“It does not matter if you are a seasoned product leader or a new product manager,</i> INSPIRED <i>will make you realise that you have the best job in the world and can have incredible impact ‐ especially if you follow Marty Cagan's words of wisdom. His book has been the bible of our industry for the past decade, and it will no doubt continue to be so with this latest update containing the most exciting best‐in‐class product practices.</i></p>
<p class="right">—Tanya Cordrey, former Chief Digital Officer at Guardian News &amp; Media</p>
</blockquote>
<blockquote class="extract">
<p><i>“Building a great product that nails Product/Market Fit is always a key first step to any successful start‐up. However, organizing the product and engineering teams, in ways that ensures scalability, speed, and quality is usually the next biggest challenge. Marty's insights and lessons learned can be applied to build highly productive teams to manage through dependencies, and build a culture that is positioned to scale. This applies whether your business is in need of a serious course correction, or on a rocket ship.”</i></p>
<p class="right">—Scott Sahadi, Founder and CEO, The Experience Engine</p>
</blockquote>
<blockquote class="extract">
<p><i>“Marty offers actionable advice on<span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_ii" role="doc-pagebreak" title="ii"/> product management without being too prescriptive, making his wisdom applicable in many contexts. He draws from a wealth of experience, illustrating his advice with dozens of real‐world stories. If you want to create digital products that people love, this book will get you started on the right path.”</i></p>
<p class="right">—Teresa Torres, Discovery Coach</p>
</blockquote>
<blockquote class="extract">
<p><i>“We have worked closely with Marty shaping product and building product management organisations in several of our portfolio companies. Marty's insight and advice is leading‐edge and world‐class.”</i></p>
<p class="right">—Harry Nellis, Partner, Accel</p>
</blockquote>
<blockquote class="extract">
<p><i>“Early in my career in Product Management, I had the good fortune of meeting Marty Cagan. Since then, he has been an incredible mentor for me and the teams I've led. I have seen, firsthand at multiple companies, how Marty transforms product teams and unlocks sustained innovation and growth. Marty literally and figuratively wrote the book on Product Management for today's technology industry.”</i></p>
<p class="right">—Sarah Fried Rose, Product Leader and COO</p>
</blockquote>
<blockquote class="extract">
<p><i>“I've been lucky to work with some of the best product managers and product minds in the business. In my experience Marty Cagan is hands down the absolute best product management mind alive today. This book packs years of experience into 250 pages.”</i></p>
<p class="right">—Marty Abbott, CEO, AKF Partners, former CTO, eBay</p>
</blockquote>
<blockquote class="extract">
<p><i>“Great products delight customers. Marty Cagan has led and inspired countless product teams and in</i> INSPIRED<i>, you will learn how to build those products, both strategically and tactically.”</i></p>
<p class="right">—Shripriya Mahesh, Partner, Omidyar Network</p>
</blockquote>
<blockquote class="extract">
<p><i>“CEOs, Chief Product Officers,<span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_iii" role="doc-pagebreak" title="iii"/> and anyone who cares about creating great products, must read this book. Your customers will love you for it.”</i></p>
<p class="right">—Phil Terry, Founder and CEO of Collaborative Gain, co‐author, Customers Included</p>
</blockquote>
<blockquote class="extract">
<p><i>“Marty is not only a seasoned expert on all aspects of the often ambiguous discipline of product management, his book also provides inspiration, tools and techniques, and really practical help.”</i></p>
<p class="right">—Judy Gibbons, Startup Advisor and Board Member</p>
</blockquote>
<blockquote class="extract">
<p><i>“Building great products is hard. Marty gives great insight into best practices and skills that really can only be discovered after years of experience and study. Just about every product person I respect learned product management from</i> INSPIRED<i>.”</i></p>
<p class="right">—Jason Li, CEO and Founder, Boolan, Shanghai</p>
</blockquote>
<blockquote class="extract">
<p><i>“If you want your customers to love your products,</i> INSPIRED <i>is an 'everyone in the company' must read book.”</i></p>
<p class="right">—Jana Eggers, CEO, Nara Logic</p>
</blockquote>
<blockquote class="extract">
<p><i>“What I really love about working with Marty is that his techniques are applicable to building really great enterprise products ‐ not just new consumer apps.</i> INSPIRED <i>is our true north. Anytime I feel the organization moving sideways, it's time to read it again!”</i></p>
<p class="right">—Jeff Trom, Founder and CTO, Workiva</p>
</blockquote>
<blockquote class="extract">
<p><i>“I've known Marty for nearly 20 years. By now, you'd think I'd have heard everything he has to say. And yet, every time I see him, his continued interest in learning about our field means that he always new ideas to share. And with honesty,<span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_iv" role="doc-pagebreak" title="iv"/> humanity, frankness, and most of all…perspective that never fails to give me fresh energy and a new approach. Thrilled that he's bottled it for us once more in this new edition of</i> INSPIRED<i>!”</i></p>
<p class="right">—Audrey Crane, Partner, DesignMap</p>
</blockquote>
<blockquote class="extract">
<p><i>“Marty's practical approach to building great products transformed the way we approached product development for the radical betterment of the Company and our customers. Just as importantly, his methodology helped shape multiple people's career trajectories both inside the Company and outside of it as they've gone on to drive product development in other organizations ‐ from Fortune 500 companies to other VC backed high growth companies. If you're in a leadership role or on the product team at an organization trying to build products your target audience loves, this should be the next book you read.”</i></p>
<p class="right">—Shawn Boyer, Founder, Snagajob and goHappy</p>
</blockquote>
<blockquote class="extract">
<p><i>“When I needed to stand up a productive, scalable product management function at Etsy, I turned to Marty. His playbook for establishing product management as a distinct discipline is invaluable for any team working on products powered by software and made by engineers.” Rarely is a business book so clearly written and packed full of concrete advice. We used it as our product management guide in scaling Etsy, and I've used it in every company since.”</i></p>
<p class="right">—Maria Thomas, Board Member and Investor</p>
</blockquote>
<blockquote class="extract">
<p><i>“The art of Product Management is the art of life itself. Surround yourselves by great people, focus on your mojo, build great stuff with integrity, hold strong opinions but lightly. And Marty is one of the best teachers of this art.”</i></p>
<p class="right">—Punit Soni, Founder and CEO, Robin, Former Google APM</p>
</blockquote>
<blockquote class="extract">
<p><i>“Marty was a coach and mentor<span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_v" role="doc-pagebreak" title="v"/> for my early years in product management and the book</i> INSPIRED <i>became the</i> go to guide <i>whenever I needed some clarity on the product manager's role, skill set or the daily challenges from product discovery to execution. And it still was a solid reference while stepping up to a product leadership role. Now, in my role as discovery coach, I recommend the book to every new client. It's not a methodology book; this book helps product people to get the right mindset regardless of the frameworks and techniques they are using.”</i></p>
<p class="right">—Petra Wille, Discovery Coach</p>
</blockquote>
<blockquote class="extract">
<p><i>“Marty's 2<sup>nd</sup> Edition builds on an amazing base of knowledge and experience, and provides even more insights, lessons, and frameworks that are imperative to every product‐based company.”</i></p>
<p class="right">—Chuck Geiger, CTO/CPO Chegg</p>
</blockquote>
<blockquote class="extract">
<p><i>“Marty has a way of elegantly simplifying decades of experience leading and teaching product organizations to excel in value creation for their customers into one actionable, inspiring, quick read. From organizational assessments, tools for aligning teams against a real user need, to the nitty gritty of pulling off continuous product discovery &amp; delivery,</i> INSPIRED <i>is my go‐to reference and recommendation for any Product Leader looking to up their game for the sake of building winning products.”</i></p>
<p class="right">—Lisa Kavanaugh, Executive Coach</p>
</blockquote>
<blockquote class="extract">
<p><i>“Marty is legendary among the best product leaders for cutting to the heart of where their teams need to improve. His advice is practical, actionable and will excite you and your team to better address customer needs immediately. Your engineers and customers will thank you for reading this book.”</i></p>
<p class="right">—Hope Gurion, Product Leader</p>
</blockquote>
<blockquote class="extract">
<p><i>“Marty is the go‐to expert for how<span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_vi" role="doc-pagebreak" title="vi"/> to build great products. He has personally trained and educated product managers from all over the world across every industry. Marty has coached and guided some of the most successful Internet companies of our time. This second edition shares even more from his vast expertise and knowledge about how the best companies in the world are able to build products that their customers love.”</i></p>
<p class="right">—Mike Fisher, CTO, Etsy</p>
</blockquote>
<blockquote class="extract">
<p><i>“Marty reminds us of the importance of</i> why <i>we build products. The product mindset and focusing on our customers, builds better entrepreneurs, companies and better solutions for all of us. This mindset is the foundation of building successful product companies at any stage.”</i></p>
<p class="right">—Erin Stadler, Discovery Coach, Boomtown Accelerator</p>
</blockquote>
</section>
</section></body>
</html>