<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" epub:prefix="index: http://www.index.com/" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Product Discovery</title>
<link href="WileyTemplate_v5.5.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:2e862cb2-cad9-442c-8afa-44800015a242" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="part" role="doc-part">
<section>
<span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_161" role="doc-pagebreak" title="161"/>
<header>
<h1><a id="part"/><span class="partTitle">Product Discovery</span></h1></header>
<section><span id="p04-sec-0003"/>
<h2 id="head-2-150">Overview</h2>
<p id="p04-para-0006">Most of us are working on solving some pretty hard problems, and it usually ends up taking some fairly complex systems to power these solutions. For most teams, there are two very significant challenges to tackle.</p>
<p id="p04-para-0007">First, discovering in detail what the customer solution needs to be. That includes everything from making sure there are enough customers that even need this solution (the demand) and then coming up with a solution that works for our customers and for our business.</p>
<p id="p04-para-0008">Even harder, we need to make sure we come up with a <i>single solution</i> that works for <i>many</i> customers, and not a series of <i>specials</i>. To do this, we need to be able to test out many ideas, and we need to do this quickly and inexpensively.</p>
<p id="p04-para-0009">Second, we need to ensure we deliver a robust and scalable implementation that our customers can depend on for consistently reliable value. Your team needs to be able to <i>release with confidence</i>. While you'll never have 100 percent confidence, you should not have to release and pray.</p>
<p id="p04-para-0010">So, we need to learn fast, yet also release with confidence.</p>
<p id="p04-para-0012">It's understandable that many people might naturally view these two difficult goals as at odds with each other. We are in a big hurry to push something out to learn what works and what doesn't. Yet, we don't want to release something that's not ready for prime time and risk hurting our customers and damaging our brand.</p>
<p id="p04-para-0013">I spend a lot of my time visiting with product teams. I have on occasion been called out for pushing hard one minute for the team to be much more aggressive in getting out to customers and getting early feedback on their ideas, and then just minutes later pushing that same team hard not to<span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_162" role="doc-pagebreak" title="162"/> compromise their standards on releasing scalable, fault‐tolerant, reliable, high‐performance, secure software.</p>
<aside><div class="top hr"><hr/></div>
<section class="feature1">
<p id="p04-para-0011"><i>We need to learn fast, yet also release with confidence.</i></p>
<div class="bottom hr"><hr/></div></section></aside>
<p id="p04-para-0014">You might also recognize this problem in another guise. Many teams get into a lot of grief with the concept of a minimum viable product (MVP) because on the one hand we are very motivated to get this out in front of customers fast to get feedback and learn. And, on the other hand, when we do get out there fast, people feel like this so‐called product is an embarrassment to the brand and the company. How could we possibly consider launching this?</p>
<p id="p04-para-0015">In this section, I clarify how strong teams work to meet these dual and simultaneous objectives of rapid learning in discovery, yet building stable and solid releases in delivery.</p>
<p id="p04-para-0016">In general, I find that most product teams have a much better sense of how to accomplish the second goal of delivering solid software than how to accomplish the first goal of rapid experimentation and discovery. Continuous delivery is a good example of an advanced delivery technique I find in teams that understand the importance of a series of small, incremental changes to a complex system.</p>
<p id="p04-para-0017">Part of what causes confusion is a dilution of what is really meant when we call something a “product” or “product‐quality” or “productized” or “live in production.”</p>
<p id="p04-para-0018">I always try hard to reserve the term <i>product</i> to describe the state at which we can run a business on it. Specifically, it is scalable and performant to the degree necessary. It has a strong suite of automated regression tests. It is instrumented to collect the necessary analytics. It has been internationalized and localized where appropriate. It is maintainable. It is consistent with the brand promise. And, most important, it is something the team can release with confidence.</p>
<p id="p04-para-0019">This is not easy—it's where most of the time goes when our engineers are building. As such, we try very hard not to waste this effort.</p>
<p id="p04-para-0020">Doing all this work when the product manager isn't even sure this is the solution the customer wants or needs is a recipe for product failure and big waste. So, the purpose of product discovery is to make sure we have some evidence that when we ask the engineers to build a production‐quality product, it won't be a wasted effort. And, this is why we have so many different techniques in product discovery.</p>
<p id="p04-para-0021">We've got techniques<span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_163" role="doc-pagebreak" title="163"/> for getting a much deeper understanding of our users and customers, and for validating product ideas both qualitatively and quantitatively. And, in fact, most of the techniques don't require the developer's time (which is important, because we appreciate how much time and effort needs to go into creating production‐quality software in delivery).</p>
<p id="p04-para-0022">Much of the key to effective product discovery is getting access to our customers without trying to push our quick experiments into production.</p>
<p id="p04-para-0023">If you are an early stage startup and you have no customers, then of course this is not really an issue (and it's very likely premature to even be creating production‐quality software).</p>
<p id="p04-para-0024">But, for most of us, we have real customers and real revenue, so we do have to care about this. Later in this section, we'll talk about the techniques that allow for rapid<span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_164" role="doc-pagebreak" title="164"/> experimentation in a responsible way in larger, enterprise companies.</p>
<p id="p04-para-0025">But here's the key. If you want to <i>discover</i> great products, it really is essential that you get your ideas in front of real users and customers early and often.</p>
<p id="p04-para-0026">If you want to <i>deliver</i> great products, you want to use best practices for engineering and try not to override the engineers' concerns.</p>
</section>
</section></body>
</html>